start question
What oil or fat to use for different purposes ?
" Commonly used " depends mostly on the culture , I 'd assume . There 's a lot of different oils , so I 've organized by use rather than try for a complete list . Some of the ones that you might find in a " typical American " foodie 's kitchen include : For frying : something with a high smoke point : peanut , sunflower , soy , extra light olive oil For baking ( muffins &amp; cakes ) : something with a mild flavor : corn , canola , " vegetable " , soy For baking ( biscuits &amp; pastry , or greasing a pan ) something solid at room temp : butter , shortening , lard For general pan cooking : olive oil ( any kind ) , butter , anything from the " baking ( muffins ) " list . update : this assumes sautéing heat or lower ; see ' frying ' for higher heat applications . For salad dressing : any nut oil , mild oil , or virgin / extra virgin olive oil For sauces : Butter . For finishing : something flavorful to drizzle over at the last second ... odds are , it 's extra virgin olive oil , but possibly sesame or a nut oil . Now , there 's regional differences -- in the south , it 's pretty common to save your bacon grease for cooking and to use shortening for frying . Lard 's still popular in hispanic ( and likely other ) cuisine , schmaltz ( rendered poultry fat ) is used in both Jewish and French cooking . Ghee ( similar to clarified butter ) , is used Indian cuisine ... and the list goes on . If you 're looking for a ' must keep on hand ' list -- a mild oil , extra virgin olive oil and butter will get you through most anything . Add shortening if you like baking , and sesame oil if you like to cook asian food , and you 'll be prepared for most anything .
As you suggest , there are a number of factors , but the best rule of thumb I 've found for pan-frying is to use just enough oil to cover the bottom of the pan by swirling it around . In general , you do n't want puddles ( you 'll get splashed with hot oil ) , but if the pan is n't covered then your food might not get cooked evenly . These days I mostly just eyeball it , and err on the generous side . Using slightly too much is n't likely to hurt your dish - unused oil just wo n't get absorbed - but using too little will result in under-cooked or inconsistently-cooked food and probably a lot of gunk stuck to the bottom of your pan . So if you 're not sure , just add a little more than you think you absolutely need .
I think a bread knife would shred the skin and flesh . I would place skin side down and , ideally , use a sharp slicing knife . Sharp is the key . I have also used a chef 's knife and a fillet knife for this task . The goal is to achieve a clean cut .
Salt moves due to differences in concentration , from regions of high concentration to regions of low concentration . So , when you boil brined fish , you surround the salty flesh with low salt concentration liquid , and thus the salt moves out to equalize the concentrations . Steaming the fish will not result in as much movement of salt , because steaming applies less total liquid to the surface of the fish . Steaming works because the very hot steam condenses onto the cooler food , and by condensing it liberates heat ( which transfers to the food ) . However , you still will have some movement of salt because the condensed steam on the surface of the fish remains at a lower salt concentration . Also , steaming is much gentler on the fish , since the meat is not being constantly agitated by boiling water . With less agitation comes less leaching . Grilling is the transfer of heat from pan to food , or from direct heat source to food . The temperatures are typically much higher than for steaming ( steam is at 212F , 100C ) , so you get entirely different chemical effects from the process ( e.g. , caramelization ) . Therefore , I doubt the fish would " fry " in its own oil in the case of steaming . If you 're concerned about maintaining the salinity of your brined fish , you could consider steaming it en Papillote , or even in foil . This would result in the fish cooking in its own moisture , essentially eliminating the leaching of salt ( although some salt would move to the surface , carried by the water ) .
Typically veggies are onions , carrots , celery , leeks , garlic , shallots , etc. . Throw in some peppercorns , also , and a <URL> . You can add most other veggies , too , and mushrooms , but avoid adding things that give a strong ( bad ) flavour after cooked for a long time ( broccoli , brussels sprouts , cauliflower , etc. ) .
Genuine fajitas are made with skirt steak . The most important thing you can do when making fajitas is marinate appropriately . That recipe calls for a dismally short marination time ( 30 mins to an hour ) . When I make fajitas I marinate them a minimum of 4 hours , though typically overnight . I usually use a combination of soy sauce , lime juice , garlic , olive oil and salt in a zip-loc bag . Another thing to be aware of is how you slice the meat . If you bought your fajita meat presliced from a good butcher , then chances are he cut it properly - against the grain . If it 's a random supermarket butcher you may or may not have had it cut properly . If you cut the meat yourself , make sure you slice it across the grain , otherwise you 'll be chewing some very tough long proteins . Also , as with any meat , do n't overcook it . Medium rare is just fine for a skirt steak . Some people will substitute a flank steak for a skirt steak when making fajitas . Flank tends to be a little less tough , but not as flavorful . The above marination and cutting guidelines apply to flank steak as well . Update - I also notice that the recipe suggests 3-4 minutes per side for medium rare . This does n't sound right to me if the grill is on high heat . Skirt and flank steaks are rather thin and 2 minutes per side on a hot grill should be medium-rare . Also , make sure you let it rest . I usually rest any steak for 5 minutes , not 3 as the recipe suggests .
The kind of oil you use in baking is mostly a matter of personal preference . Any neutral oil ( no strong flavor ) will do . I suggest you use an oil that you keep around for another purpose , which is not too expensive . Some good candidates include : Canola oil Peanut oil ( refined , except for those with peanut allergies ) Generic " vegetable " oil Grapeseed oil is also excellent but tends to expensive . Oils you would want to avoid due to the fact that they bring more flavor which may not be what you want in baked goods include : Olive oil Sesame oil Unrefined oils of all sorts
Do n't reuse an old milk jug for storing the new , combined milk . The standard plastics used in milk jugs in most areas can not be properly sanitized for reuse ( even with standard sanitizing solutions ) . Instead , use a properly sanitized and covered glass or plastic container , preferably one that you clean in a hot water dish washer . Milk stored in a properly cleaned container will have the maximum shelf life ( and reduced chance of other contaminants ) .
It 's the same idea as puff pastry , when the layers of oil/fat heat up they expand and make air pockets in the dough which gives the flaky consistency . The fat or oil needs to be layered and not amalgamated to get the flaky layers . If it was spread throughout the dough randomly it would be a more spongy texture . The other name for this is laminated dough . In short the layering of dough and fat/oil are to generate texture .
Pizza hut uses skim milk mozzarella on it 's pizza , at least in the USA . Not sure what they use in other countries , but I would imagine it is still the same . Skim milk mozzarella is extremely stretchy , but loses a little on the flavor end . More expensive pizzerias normally spring for the full fat mozzarella cheese . Dominos uses a mix of cheese , made up of mozzarella , Pecarino , Parmesan , and asiago cheeses . I think in their most recent reboot they switched to part skim mozzarella but I am not one hundred percent on that .
Answer : No oil . I do n't use oil . I use a non-stick pan or I grill it in oven . I do n't understand why people are using oil to do injustice to salmon . I want the salmon to be firm and not mushy . I already face the problem of having to take care of the juice/oil flowing out of the salmon . I do n't want more fluid added which would further mushify the fish . Pan-poaching : Place the slice of salmon on its skin , on the pan . Gradually turn the heat up to moderate . As the skin-side gradually becomes firm , turn the slice over . When the other side also becomes firm , turn the slice back to face the skin-side down to brown the skin on strong heat . The problem I face is too much juice/oil exuding from the salmon . Continually notice if salmon juice/oil is flowing out , to drain the juice/oil into a bowl . After cooking salmon is complete , place salmon into serving plate and the pour salmon juice back into pan . Add diced garlic , chopped cilantro and onions . Or use pre-fried onions bought from Vietnamese store . Stir fry for 2-3 minutes . Resultant is a nice gravy to be used as topping for the salmon . Sprinkle blue cheese bits . Broiling ( set the oven to broil ) : Place salmon skin facing up on oven pan . For soft steak : use a smaller pan so that the juice/oil that flows out would not spread out to be being burnt away by the heat . So that the juice/oil keeps the salmon moist and soft . For firm poach : Drain the pan frequently . Use various apparatus to elevate the pan so that the salmon is 1 inch away from the top heating element of the oven . Turn oven to 180 F for 30 minutes . This is to firm up the salmon and let its initial flow of juice/oil out of the salmon . Then turn the oven up to 240F till the fish is cooked . Gently separate the skin from the fish without injuring the flesh . Broil the skin at 350F till it becomes crispy . Crispy salmon skin biscuit = heavens ! The crispy salmon skin must be eaten within 30 minutes - otherwise , it would soon absorb moisture and becomes flaccid . See , no oil involved ( other than the oil exuding from the fish ) .
Butter is at most 82 % oil and the rest is water . So , you 're going to need to add more butter for the same amount of oil . Besides , you need to adjust the liquid content accordingly since you are going to have more water than you planned . If you are going to use the same amount of oil , then it will not make any difference other than the taste . Just make sure they are of same state ( i.e. melted butter instead of vegetable oil or vice versa )
In general lard can always be substituted for butter , but you will not get the same flavour , obviously . Lard is perhaps a bit more ' savoury ' than butter , so it may be worth trying a pie out just to see if it works with a sweet filling . You should be able to convert straight from butter to lard . Another alternative is vegetable shortening , which you can use in all kinds of baking .
N2O is more stable than CO2 . Mixing N2O with water or cream wo n't create diffetent molecules . If the liquid you add N2O is not very thick ( as water ) the gas and liquid will separate in two . If it is thick , as with cream , the gas will get trapped in it . You can see <URL> . CO2 reacts with water ( H2O ) making H2CO3 ( carbonic acid ) . It makes soda water , which has a slight acid taste , and get bubbles of released CO2 if the pressure of the soda water falls . CO2 can be used for whipping cream , but it will give acid taste to it . You can get some more information from <URL> . None of them cools liquids . The chargers get cooled down when opened , as the gas inside them decreases pressure . But that gas goes to the cream whipper or the soda siphon , which theoretically should increase its temperature , but having a much larger volume than the charger makes that increase unnoticeable . When using pressure gas to make espresso , you arent pouring that gas to a closed recipient : the water escapes thru the coffee puck , so it wo n't cool the water . MyPressi V1 put the gas in the middle of the water chamber , so it could only be used with N2O . V2 of the device puts the gas in the top part of the chamber , so it is not mixed with the water , making it suitable to be used with CO2 .
You want to use an oil that will handle the hotter temperatures of a wok . This <URL> suggests that most refined oils will work fine . Do n't use unrefined oils or butter because they 'll burn . Once you 've got an oil that will handle the heat , you want something that will taste good . I think that 's the main issue with olive oil . There are n't olives in asian cuisine and I think that would taste a bit funny . I tend to use vegetable or canola oil for the majority of my stir-frying and then add a little sesame oil towards the end ( generally when sauteing garlic and ginger ) . The sesame oil adds a strong asian flavor to the food . I 've tried just using sesame oil , as a recipe sometimes recomends , but I find the flavor overpowering . Unrefined sesame oil is fairly common at the grocery store , and you do n't want to use that as it will burn in the wok ( but it could be drizzled on the food after cooking ) .
For Baking , to double the quantities , try the following : Remove 1/3 of the cooking time . Double the remaining amount . Add your original third back on . So If you 're doubling something that would take 1 hour to bake . Remove 1/3 ( Leaving 40 minutes ) Double this new amount ( Giving 80 minutes ) Add your original 1/3 back on . ( 100 minutes ) You may need to play around with the temperatures to make sure that you 're not burning the outside .
The problem is that there are different types of olive oil that are used for dramatically different purposes . A high quality ' cold pressed extra virgin ' oil often has fruity notes that are destroyed when you heat it , but is great for drizzling over things at the last minute , or cold applications such as salad dressings ... but note that the US labeling laws are lax , so something labeled as ' extra virgin ' in the US may not qualify as such in Europe . For most cooking , I use a good grade olive oil ( ' virgin ' , but not ' extra virgin ' ) for cooking with , not the extremely expensive stuff . For frying , there 's ' extra light ' olive oil which has a higher smoke point but little to no flavor on its own . It 's refined to such a point that you might be better off just going with any neutral flavored oil ( canola/rape , soy , corn , etc. ) Price depends on a lot of things , and a lot of it 's marketing and worthless -- if you can , I 'd look for other signs of quality ... like if there 's a packing date . Older oil is more likely to have deteriorated , and in a worst case , have gone rancid . ( more likely if it 's in a clear glass bottle ... if you 're buying large amounts of oil , keep it out of sunlight , or even better , buy it in a can ) Note that packing dates can also be cheated -- they might press the oil , then hold it for months before it 's actually bottled for sale . Also beware of ' blended oils ' . This is when they cut olive oil with something less expensive , but still try to pass it off as ' olive oil ' . ' Imported from Italy ' is another suspect label , as it might be foreign olives that were sent to Italy before being imported . ( but there 's nothing wrong with non-Italian olives ... the Greeks and Spanish make some great olive oils , and we 're starting to see more <URL> ) . ... Also note that olive oil can be classified like wines -- some companies might press a single variety of olive ( eg , Kalamata , Castelvetrano ) , which can have dramatically different flavors . They might be fruity , grassy , buttery , or even peppery . Regions can also have an impact , as some areas press olives while green , and others wait until they 're black . I wo n't get into these , as that 's more a matter of personal taste .
Blah ... this is getting to be a bit long for a comment , so I might as well reformat &amp; expand more , even though it might not be an appropriate answer . ( and I should note that this is mostly from memory as I got an engineering degree ~ 20 years ago ) Are you asking about the physics of what ' crunchy ' is ? It 's effectively stiff , brittle things . When you 're dealing with strength of materials , you 're looking at how much energy something can absorb before it fails . Strain is a measure of how much something deforms as it 's being loaded . Items that can take a high load ( force applied ) without deforming are considered stiff . ( stiffness = force / deformation ) Brittle is a characterization of how it fails -- something that deforms plastically ( stretches and wo n't go back to the original shape once the load is removed ) can become weaker as more force is applied , but still keep resisting . Think of something like taffy . Brittle failures , however , are almost explosive -- it just breaks suddenly . Think of a concrete block being crushed -- you load it and it looks like nothing 's happening , but suddenly bits of it shoot off and you 're left with a pile of rubble . Why things are crunchy is another issue entirely -- because there 's lots of different structures that can result in " crunchy " . Crunchy baked goods are more like a wooden truss bridge . Wood can handle a lot of force without breaking , but once once member goes , the truss loses strength and is ripped apart , and it suddenly fails . There 's often debris along the breakage because of how the item rips itself apart internally . ( although we typically call them ' crumbs ' not ' rubble ' when talking about this kind of food ) . For these foods , water will typically soften the structure making it so they ca n't support much load -- making them not stiff , and thus not crunchy . Moist things like apples , lettuce and carrots are often crunchy , but it 's a bit different . It 's more like bubble wrap . Cells are effectively a bunch of tiny water balloons bound tightly together . As we apply pressure , they pop . ( although they 're so tightly packed together that unlike a single water balloon , it does n't have space to deform ) . In this case , we do n't see crumbs as much as the moisture from the cells breaking . If the cells are n't full , then we consider it to be mushy ... maybe even chewy if we dry it far enough ... if the cells do n't stay bound together well , then it 's mealy -- it crumbles easily , rather than giving us that resistance before it fails explosively . So anyway ... if you want crunchy without sugar and fat ... have some celery . If you 're okay with a bit of sugar , then carrots . If a bit of fat , then crackers ( but not ritz or really buttery ones ) .
The best resource I 've seen is here at <URL> . Egg yolk produces a shiny and dark look but remains soft . Egg white is still soft but less shiny . Milk and water only darken it slightly and produce what the article calls a ' satin ' look . Butter makes it shiny , smooth , rich , and well , buttery !
What is the application ? For most uses , no , there would be little to no effective difference . Dairy products are a mixture of water , sugars , minerals ( which the dairy industry calls ash , because they are left as ash when burned in a calorimeter ) , proteins , and fat . If the product is not homogonized , the fat globules will eventually rise to the surface ( where they can be skimmed as cream , giving rise to the term skim milk for when the cream has been removed ) . If the product is homogonized , the fat has been forced into much smaller globules which form a stable emulsion , and will not rise . Whipping non-homogonized cream is much easier , but most of us ( at least in the US ) do not have easy access to such a product . Additionally , most dairy products are pasteurized in one of the various methods , slow or fast , which can affect the flavor . Other than these differences in flavor or whipability , you can mix them with little difference for most applications . Note : to your specific question , your mixture of smim milk and cream may actually be richer than commercial half and half , which is often about 12 % milkfat , but it would function very similarly . Of course , all the above only applies to fresh products -- basic milk or cream of various fat percentages . Fermented products like yogurt , creme fraiche , cottage cheese , buttermilk , and so forth have entirely different charactaristics .
end question
start question
What do " virgin " and " extra virgin " mean in regards to olive oil ?
In the US , " extra virgin " is n't a legally protected term - some of the stuff sold as EVOO here would never , ever pass as it elsewhere . From <URL> : Extra-virgin olive oil comes from virgin oil production only , contains no more than 0.8 % acidity , and is judged to have a superior taste . Extra Virgin olive oil accounts for less than 10 % of oil in many producing countries . It is used on salads , added at the table to soups and stews and for dipping . Virgin olive oil comes from virgin oil production only , has an acidity less than 2 % , and is judged to have a good taste . Pure olive oil . Oils labeled as Pure olive oil or Olive oil are usually a blend of refined and virgin production oil . Cooking-wise , the extra virgin stuff is best used in situations where it wo n't be highly heated . Salad dressings , dipping oils , finishing a dish , etc. are where it shines .
Oil definitely changes the crust , and whether or not it 's " better " depends on what you 're going for . Oil in the dough tends to give a softer and thicker crust , while a lean dough tends to give a crisper and thinner crust . Other dough ingredients that tenderize include milk and eggs , and there are plenty of web pages listing " dough enhancers " that give various effects . Again , it all depends on what type of crust and crumb you want .
Basically , it is that easy . But it is a costly endeaver . I have know chefs to make it with a pure olive oil or grape seed oil . Some heat it to 220 degrees or so but I have meet some that do n't . The ones that did n't made sure to pull the oxygen from the bottle with one of those wine vacuum savers . I have been told self made truffle oil will lose it truffle flavor due to most the flavor actually coming from an odorant . I have not personally made any so I ca n't speak from experience on how long it will hold . All the above being said . If I had the money to buy some truffle , I am not sure the best use for them would be to make truffle oil .
Yes , it 's oxidation , so yes , oil will stop it happening . However , broiling the potatoes straight from the oil will not yield very good results . You are much better off par-boiling them for 3 or 4 minutes , draining them , leaving them to steam and dry out for a few minutes , then coating them in oil and seasoning , and baking them for 30-45 mins . This will yield a nice , crispy-on-the-outside-fluffy-on-the-inside result . So , if you 're boiling them you might as well put them straight in the water you 're going to use to do that .
" Commonly used " depends mostly on the culture , I 'd assume . There 's a lot of different oils , so I 've organized by use rather than try for a complete list . Some of the ones that you might find in a " typical American " foodie 's kitchen include : For frying : something with a high smoke point : peanut , sunflower , soy , extra light olive oil For baking ( muffins &amp; cakes ) : something with a mild flavor : corn , canola , " vegetable " , soy For baking ( biscuits &amp; pastry , or greasing a pan ) something solid at room temp : butter , shortening , lard For general pan cooking : olive oil ( any kind ) , butter , anything from the " baking ( muffins ) " list . update : this assumes sautéing heat or lower ; see ' frying ' for higher heat applications . For salad dressing : any nut oil , mild oil , or virgin / extra virgin olive oil For sauces : Butter . For finishing : something flavorful to drizzle over at the last second ... odds are , it 's extra virgin olive oil , but possibly sesame or a nut oil . Now , there 's regional differences -- in the south , it 's pretty common to save your bacon grease for cooking and to use shortening for frying . Lard 's still popular in hispanic ( and likely other ) cuisine , schmaltz ( rendered poultry fat ) is used in both Jewish and French cooking . Ghee ( similar to clarified butter ) , is used Indian cuisine ... and the list goes on . If you 're looking for a ' must keep on hand ' list -- a mild oil , extra virgin olive oil and butter will get you through most anything . Add shortening if you like baking , and sesame oil if you like to cook asian food , and you 'll be prepared for most anything .
<URL> . A slow simmer would be a very thin but continuous stream of bubbles rising from the bottom of the pot . Parboiling does not mean maximum heat . Parboiling means that you 're only boiling until it 's part of the way cooked , not completely cooked ; so , you 're cooking mostly at a full boil , then reducing heat to a simmer to finish them . This ensures they do n't overcook . You 'll have to figure what setting a boil and a simmer are on your plate , as it depends on the power and size of your pot . On a stove , I 'd expect 2 to be a simmer , and about 3 as a full boil , but it varies from one model to another .
The problem is that there are different types of olive oil that are used for dramatically different purposes . A high quality ' cold pressed extra virgin ' oil often has fruity notes that are destroyed when you heat it , but is great for drizzling over things at the last minute , or cold applications such as salad dressings ... but note that the US labeling laws are lax , so something labeled as ' extra virgin ' in the US may not qualify as such in Europe . For most cooking , I use a good grade olive oil ( ' virgin ' , but not ' extra virgin ' ) for cooking with , not the extremely expensive stuff . For frying , there 's ' extra light ' olive oil which has a higher smoke point but little to no flavor on its own . It 's refined to such a point that you might be better off just going with any neutral flavored oil ( canola/rape , soy , corn , etc. ) Price depends on a lot of things , and a lot of it 's marketing and worthless -- if you can , I 'd look for other signs of quality ... like if there 's a packing date . Older oil is more likely to have deteriorated , and in a worst case , have gone rancid . ( more likely if it 's in a clear glass bottle ... if you 're buying large amounts of oil , keep it out of sunlight , or even better , buy it in a can ) Note that packing dates can also be cheated -- they might press the oil , then hold it for months before it 's actually bottled for sale . Also beware of ' blended oils ' . This is when they cut olive oil with something less expensive , but still try to pass it off as ' olive oil ' . ' Imported from Italy ' is another suspect label , as it might be foreign olives that were sent to Italy before being imported . ( but there 's nothing wrong with non-Italian olives ... the Greeks and Spanish make some great olive oils , and we 're starting to see more <URL> ) . ... Also note that olive oil can be classified like wines -- some companies might press a single variety of olive ( eg , Kalamata , Castelvetrano ) , which can have dramatically different flavors . They might be fruity , grassy , buttery , or even peppery . Regions can also have an impact , as some areas press olives while green , and others wait until they 're black . I wo n't get into these , as that 's more a matter of personal taste .
Well , this is a common confusion between " sour " and " bitter " . The better your olive oil is , the lower its acid value - extra virgin olive oil has the lowest acid value , it is pressed in ways that reduce contact with atmospheric oxygen . Contact with oxygen increases the acid value of olive oil . Whizzing olive oil in a blender aerates it , and the resultant oxidation increases the acid value , ie it gets more acidic and tastes " sourer " . Lots of people can discern the change , but they do n't use the right word to express it ...
Seltzer and carbonated water are the same thing . Club soda is slightly different . <URL> The term seltzer water is a genericized trademark that derives from the German town Selters , which is renowned for its mineral springs . Naturally carbonated water has been commercially bottled and shipped from this town since the 18th century or earlier . Generally , seltzer water has no added sodium salts , while club soda still retains the sodium salts . So , the primary difference is that seltzer has no added ingredients , but <URL> : Sodium bicarbonate , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate and sodium citrate are added to club soda ... <URL> of the ingredients list and taste of various types of fizzy water . So to answer your question directly , you can make seltzer just by carbonating regular tap water , and you can make club soda by adding potassium bicarbonate , potassium sulfate , or baking soda to water and carbonating it .
Since I 'm not an expert in Indian cuisine , I ca n't say this for certain , but I agree with the comments so far that this seems basically equivalent to the separation of the oil from the curry . To my mind , the wording makes perfect sense , because in some cases with a lot of oil/butter , you can get separation happening early on the pan 's edges . Oil tends to float on top , and usually the center of a pan is heated more strongly over a burner . Thus , you tend to get boiling/bubbling in the center , which tends to push any floating oil toward the edges . But these recipes are not looking for that small amount of oil along the edge ( which , depending on stirring and the thickness of the curry , can stay there through much of the cooking process ) . They are specifically waiting for the time when separation increases and fat appears floating on the surface even away from the edges of the pan .
Disclaimer : I 've never tried to make a ganache with olive oil , so take that into consideration as you read the following . First , I have to assume that you 're trying to use olive oil to replace the cream that 's normally used in making ganache , perhaps to make a non-dairy ganache . If that 's not right , please clarify your question . Ganache is essentially an emulsion of cocoa butter ( usually from chocolate ) and cream , plus vanilla and/or other flavorings , that is allowed to cool to the point where the cocoa butter solidifies . It 's the solidified cocoa butter that gives ganache it 's firm texture . The greater the ratio of cocoa butter to cream , the firmer the ganache will be . If you want to replace the cream , you 'll need to make sure that you replace all the components that have an effect on the emulsion . Harold McGee 's <URL> explains the structure of ganache : The continuous phase of this mixture , the portion that permeates it , is a syrup made from the cream 's water and the chocolate 's sugar . Suspended in the syrup are the milk fat globules from the cream , and cocoa butter droplets and solid cocoa particles from the chocolate . He does n't say it , but I 'd guess that the milk proteins from the cream might act as emulsifiers to help stabilize the emulsion , much as they do with <URL> . The melting point of olive oil is obviously different from that of butterfat , but since you heat the cream in order to make ganache anyway , olive oil might still work . Given what McGee says , you 'll need to make sure that you add an appropriate amount of water so that there 's enough syrup to suspend the butterfat , cocoa butter , and solids . How much is an appropriate amount ? Cream is usually 20-40 % butterfat , so starting with a 1 part oil for 2 parts water seems reasonable . You might also need to add something that 'll act as an emulsifier , like lecithin .
Nothing else is going to taste like extra-virgin olive oil , but extra-virgin is n't necessary for cooking at all . As a matter of fact , the smoke point of extra-virgin olive oil is so low that it 's not often used for cooking . For cooking with olive oil , usually the choice would be " refined " or " pure " olive oil . Honestly , those do n't taste like much . So whatever neutral oil you usually use ( soybean , canola , peanut and vegetable are a few options ) will work just fine .
I 'm pretty sure the word " live " means that it 's raw and uncooked . I found a recipe for <URL> that 's very similar to the menu item you describe . It uses zucchini " noodles " , cashew " ricotta " , along with marinated mushrooms , and tomato sauce to make a raw and meatless " lasagna " . The only apparent difference is that the recipe calls for spinach pesto instead of pine nut pesto .
For most vegetables , it is very difficult , if not impossible , to retain their quality once they have been cut . Your efforts would be much better spent either improving your cutting/chopping proficiency or in cooking entire meals ahead of time . Also , you could prepare components , such as sauteed onions or peppers , and maintain relatively high-quality versions of those . Meat is a different story . You can do preparations in advance , and freeze individual portions for later use without degrading quality . The best way to avoid freezer burn is to have a very cold freezer ( ironically , easing the cooling settings on your freezer was having the opposite of your desired effect ) , and to prevent your food from coming in contact with air . You can use a freezer bag for each food item , making sure you squeeze all the air out of it first . However , if you are really serious about this , you would be well-served by investing in a vacuum sealer . Air is the big enemy here , so mechanically removing air from the system will greatly extend freezer life .
I think this is a problem with all oils . When something burns , it produces smoke . Smoke is generally indicative of something that is n't particularly good for us if inhaled . Same holds for oils . It seems that all oils will begin to produce toxins once they hit their smoke point . However , before that , they are completely fine . So pick an oil that will handle the temperature you 're using by checking the <URL> . There 's also a difference between producing toxins and toxic . Does burning oil produce toxins ? Yes . Will that actually make you sick ? I do n't know . But my inclination is that it 's unlikely to cause you harm under " normal " usage or else we 'd be hearing about people actually getting sick from burning their oil rather than just getting scare stories on the news about free radicals . And to get very sciency ( stop reading immediately if your eyes glaze over , I think that 's a sign of toxicity ) , from <URL> : Researchers investigated processes of oxidative degradation - notably that caused at 70 ° C with ventilation - of a broad group of oils with very wide-ranging compositions . Another degradation process studied was that which is caused by microwave action that does not heat greater than a temperature of 190 ° C . In both processes deterioration of the oils takes place . In the first type of process ( 70 ° C with ventilation ) hydroperoxides are first produced and subsequently aldehydes . In the second kind of process ( microwave ) it is basically aldehydes produced . It has to be pointed out that both the oxidative conditions and the composition of the oil determined the velocity of the degradation and both the nature and concentration of the compounds produced . These studies have shown , for the first time , that degradation of lipids in foods can produce toxic oxygenated aldehydes . These compounds , well-known in medical studies for their geno - and cytotoxic activity , considered as markers of oxidative stress in cells as well as being causal agents of degenerative illnesses , had not previously been detected in foodstuffs . Researchers have shown that some oils produce these toxic substances in greater quantities and at a greater rate . Virgin olive oil was , amongst all the oils studied , that which took longer to produce this type of compounds and produced a lower concentration of them .
Peanut ( groundnut ) oil is a great option . In the US vegetable oil generally means soybean oil or a soybean oil blend . The main things are that it be neutral ( little or no taste of its own ) , with a high smoke point . On those scores , you ca n't do much better than peanut oil . I have not used rice bran oil . Yellow squash generally means this : ( the long one ) It can also mean the other yellow vegetable in the picture or this : What it is not , is butternut : That is a different flavor entirely . Yellow squash is more like zucchini , butternut squash is more like pumpkin . Welcome to Seasoned Advice .
Biscuits are notorious for that ; they 're best eaten right away . If you want to preserve their original texture longer than 12 hours ( yes , that short of a time ) , your best bet is to freeze them as soon as they are cool and eat them within a month or two . Wrap them as air-tightly as possible . You can pop the frozen biscuits in a moderate oven or unwrap and give them an hour or so on the counter to defrost , then warm them . Either way , it 's best to serve them warm , they will seem softer and fresher that way . If you 've found a recipe you like and think you might want to make them frequently , mix the dry ingredients for multiple batches . If you can weigh the dry mix that you have just mixed , then you 're golden . You can make as many or as few biscuits as you want anytime just by using the same proportion of dry , fat and liquid as the original recipe . You can easily make a single biscuit that way or feed a crowd .
Determine correct ratio of food to salt . Add more food until proper ratio is achieved . Or just serve extra beer with it .
The fridge itself does storing , cooling , and dehydrating . But the last part is rather slow , you do n't see the effect all that much . It is more prominent at low temperatures ( manifests as freezer burn ) . But try leaving unwrapped bacon slices in the regular fridge and you 'll see what I mean . But anyway , it is n't all that interesting what the fridge does , because we only use it for cooling . The interesting things happen in whatever you put into the fridge . The explanation will be somewhat long even without details . The dishes you described have different reasons to need cooling , so I have to deal with them separately . First , egg whites . Stiffly beaten egg whites tend to weep . Cooling them slows the process . You know , less Brownian motion , etc. . Still , overbeating them is never a good idea :) In this case , there are no fat particles responsible for the foam stability ; in fact , the smallest amount of fat can disrupt the building of egg white foam . The second class are the dishes which contain lots of saturated fat . They are made with ( raw ) cream , chocolate , butter , or other such stuff . Saturated fat is an amorphous solid , it has no sharp melting point . It gets very soft before it melts , butter is a good example . So these things are kept at fridge temperatures . If they are left to warm again to room temperature , they become much softer than in the fridge . ( The exception which gets softer than in the fridge , but not all the way to the state before cooling , is ganache . This is because cocoa contains starch , which thickens . See the part about gelling below ) . Third , we have custards . Panna cotta is a good example . They set by way of denaturing egg proteins . This happens at around 85 ° C , on the stove . They are put into the fridge to get colder , because they taste better that way . They do n't get firmer in there , and they wo n't melt if taken out of the fridge . Then we have the hydrocolloids , or gelling agents . While technically starch gels in a different way than gums , I 'll put them together here . The important point is to know if they are thermoreversible . Starch is n't thermoreversible . If you create a blanchmange thick enough to stay on its own out of the mold , it will need to be cooled before it is set completely . But once set , it wo n't go fluid again at high temperatures . Gelatin , on the other hand , is thermoreversible . It needs to be heated before it will dissolve at all , but then it must be cooled to set again . If you make jello and keep it outside of the fridge , it wo n't be much softer than in the fridge . But if you heat it up all the way to 50 ° C , it will melt to liquid again . Then there are the even funnier ones which will harden at high temperatures and soften at low temperatures , etc. . But mainly , you do n't have to keep hydrocolloid gels cooled once they are set . In fact , they do n't even need fridge temperatures to set . Gelatine is perfectly happy to gel at summer room temperatures . But the cooling takes much longer because of the smaller heat difference between liquid and air . So it sets quick in the fridge , but has to be left overnight in order to work at room temp . As for the practical meaning of all this : you can keep most stuff outside without a texture problem . The exception of this rule is anything made with saturated fat : cream , chocolate , pastry dough , buttercream frosting . But it is common knowledge that these should be kept cool anyway .
Olive oil degrades over time so freshness is important . Some of the higher priced olive oils sit on shelves for a very long time and by time they are sold they can be of lower quality than some mass produced olive oils . I 'd say you 're in the right frame of mind and would recommend finding a brand with a local representative who can trust and know the source and timing of the oil . Many smaller olive oil producers do n't bother with organic certification because of cost , but they have same or better standards . Therefore there is a sweet-spot where you can get quality olive oil similar to organics at decent prices . Keep in mind good olive oil is produced in many places , including Greece , Spain , and Lebanon . Not just Italy .
end question
start question
How should I wash the potatoes before baking them ?
For baking potatoes Do n't just wash them , scrub them . Otherwise you 're eating dirt . No , that 's not a joke . Potatoes grow in dirt , and are usually sold coated with dirt . Yes , really . Either salt them and wrap them in tin-foil , or simply bake them on a bed of salt . Dessication of the skin is important . You 'll probably want to bake them longer and higher than most recipes say . I find 425F for 1 1/2 hours is optimal ( and 2 hours is fine ) . That results in skin which is dry , crispy , and slightly caramelized , while this inside still is fluffy ( albeit , according to some , overcooked ) .
Short version : If it 's only overnight , and you seal the containers reasonably well , you 'll be okay prepping any of those ingredients ahead of time and storing them in the refrigerator overnight . I often leave onions in the fridge when preparing a recipe that calls for only half an onion , or if I 've decided to use less than I prepped , or if I 'm making a salsa and I chop the onions before realizing I do n't have as many tomatoes as I thought , etc. . If you do n't cover them they will dry out a bit , but overnight does n't do much harm ; I find if they 're tightly covered , whether in a glass bowl with plastic wrap or a sealed plastic storage container , they 're just as good the next day . The same goes for carrots and celery . I 'm sure there 's been a time when I prepped too much mirepoix ; but generally speaking , if you have a cut carrot or stalk of celery in the fridge , it does n't suffer too much overnight . More than a day and it starts to dry out ; the cut surface of the carrot will start to look like the end near the tops , and possibly split . The celery dries out more quickly , as it 's got higher water content and more fragile structure to begin with ; more than a day and it 'll lose its color , eventually turning limp and yellow , starting from the cut end . For the veggies , the way to keep them freshest is with a tight seal and as little air as possible . You could put them in a zipper bag and squeeze out any extra air but I think a reasonably-sized glass bowl , covered tightly with plastic wrap and placed in the fridge , is good enough for 12-24 hours . If you do n't have room in the fridge , you 'll probably still be okay , and they may even be less prone to drying out ( the air in your fridge is very low-humidity ; sometimes you have a special compartment for which the humidity can be adjusted , for fruits and vegetables ) . I have less experience prepping meat ahead of time , unless I 'm brining or marinading it ; in those situations , the meat 's covered by a liquid that contains preservatives ( salt , acid ) that help prevent it from spoiling , and it 's always refrigerated . Keeping it cool and minimizing the contact with air or contaminants is the main thing . If you only have enough room in the fridge to store some of your prepped ingredients , use it for the meat . In this case I 'd say a zipper bag with the air squeezed out is the clear way to go ; meat is malleable and you 'll be able to get nearly all of the air out , which means it 'll store almost as well as it did before you chopped it into pieces . The thing to remember about ground , chopped or cubed meat is that anything that contaminated the outside surface of the original cut is now mixed evenly throughout . This is why it 's generally safer to order a steak rare than it is to order a hamburger rare ; the center of the steak has n't been exposed to as much of its environment as the center of the burger , during handling and storage . So even if you refrigerate your prepped meat in a sealed container with the air evacuated , effectively storing it just as well as when it was in the original packaging and in one piece , I would n't expect it to keep the same effective " use by " date because it 's been disturbed and mixed and exposed to the environment of your prep area . You 're better off doing this with a cut that you purchased recently , which has n't been refrozen and is n't nearing expiration .
Salt serves two primary purposes in baking : To regulate yeast Salt kills yeast . The addition of salt to a yeast leavened dough prevents the little beasties from growing completely out of control . To enhance and mask specific flavors Salt is almost a universal flavor enhancer . Virtually anything that tastes good , will taste better with salt . What typically comes as a surprise to people is that this holds true with sweet things too , particularly chocolate . The addition of even a tiny bit of salt can make a sweet dish significantly sweeter . It also serves to mask the taste of raw flour . Update Also according to <URL> salt affects the strength and shelf life of baked goods .
There are <URL> ( usually of Italian origin ) specifically made with olive oil . In breads , you can certainly use it , although there often is not enough olive oil for its flavor to truly be appreciated . New York style pizza dough , for example , is traditionally made with some olive oil .
It is because of the way starch retrogrades . It does so in stages . The first stage needs between 1 and 2 hours , the second one a few days . You have probably seen it more clearly in starch-thickened puddings : they thicken a bit on stovetop , but are only ready to unmold after a few hours , else they wuold n't keep their shape . In a bread , the starch granules are the same way : right after baking , they contain too much moisture . Sure , if you eat the bread right away , the aroma is very good . But the texture is problematic . It gets doughy and dense at the smallest amount of pressure . Tearing instead of cutting helps a bit . And if you are at home , eating with your family , go for it and eat the tasty still-hot bread . It is especially good with soft , low-gluten breads made with AP flour with the least amount of bran ( 50 % milling grade or even less ) , my grandma would say that they " melt in the mouth " when they are hot . But if you serve bread slices to guests , or want to spread something on the bread , wait for its starch to set . On a side note , the second stage of starch retrogradation is the reason why you should use day-old bread for crumbs for thickening , and the third stage is the one which makes bread inedible . But this goes too far away from the original question .
I was lucky enough to get a macaron session from a Michelin-starred pastry chef before Christmas and he gave me some invaluable tips . Use an Italian meringue recipe . In other words , pour warm sugar syrup on to the egg whites instead of sugar from the cupboard . The eggs will already have been ' cooked ' into structure and will not require any crusting . They will retain the same shape that you pipe them out at . You can bake them straight away , or in a couple of hours - they wo n't be any different . When piping , use a moderate pressure . Do n't wring the bag out . Keep the nozzle approx 2cm over the tray and maintain that height while you pipe - let the weight of the batter spread the macaron out evenly . When there is enough mixture in place ( about 4cm across ? ) stop squeezing and flick the nozzle away in a controlled circular motion to avoid creating a ' nipple ' . I wrote about this including his recipe on <URL> . PS . I just remembered that adding further weight to the Italian meringue technique a very prominent French chef in the UK , Raymond Blanc , said that he always uses this method . On his TV programme this week he said it delivers far more consistent results .
For baking potatoes Do n't just wash them , scrub them . Otherwise you 're eating dirt . No , that 's not a joke . Potatoes grow in dirt , and are usually sold coated with dirt . Yes , really . Either salt them and wrap them in tin-foil , or simply bake them on a bed of salt . Dessication of the skin is important . You 'll probably want to bake them longer and higher than most recipes say . I find 425F for 1 1/2 hours is optimal ( and 2 hours is fine ) . That results in skin which is dry , crispy , and slightly caramelized , while this inside still is fluffy ( albeit , according to some , overcooked ) .
The coating you are talking about is potato starch that is browning on the bottom of the pan , similar to what happens to roux when it is prepared . If you deglaze the pan using alcohol , it will come right off without any effort ( water works too , though more is needed ) . As for how to get the potatoes not to stick , it 's important that the pan and the oil are quite hot when the potatoes are added to the pan . As described at <URL> , the hot oil encourages a steam barrier to appear between the potatoes and the pan , temporarily protecting the potatoes from sticking and encouraging the formation of a crust that will permanently keep them from sticking . Depending on the amount of potato being cooked , the amount of oil added to the pan will have to be adjusted for thermal mass , since the addition of uncooked potatoes will cause the oil to cool down very quickly .
No , it wo n't change the aroma compared to conventional heating . Generally , heating does change aroma . But it changes in the same way in conventional heating and in microwave heating ( given that you heat to the same internal temperature , which can be very different time and power settings for different types of heating devices ) . What microwaves change is texture . That 's why the microwave is considered " a horrible thing " among chefs . You ca n't bake doughs or batters in it , and other things like vegetables can also suffer . Then there is the problem with uneven heating . None of these factors matter with liquids . You can warm milk , wine , whatever , in the microwave , without fearing a taste change .
The answer depends on where you live , and what type you have brought . In many countries that import chickpeas they heat treat them to kill seed-borne diseases and insects . The heat treatment process makes them more difficult to cook , and soaking times double or triple . Beans from exporters with phytosanitary certificates can be imported without heat treatment ; these are the ones you want to get . I do n't think you can tell which is which by looking at them . At the moment we have some particularly dark , dry , and dead looking beans that soak up beautifully in 8 hours ! Soak non-heat treated beans for 8 to 12 hours , heat treated beans for 24 to 36 hours . Some overly heat treated beans will never fully revive , and you are best to return these to the shop as " faulty " . Soak and cook without salt , unless you are going to mash them . They fall apart more readily if salted . If you are not mashing them , the secret to great chickpea taste is after soaking and cooking in water , is to lightly fry them with a little olive oil until dark spot appear , keep them or the pan moving so none burn . Then add the sauce , or add them to whatever dish you are preparing .
This is what <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) has to say about it : Sometimes baked potatoes can use a flavor boost . And instead of light and fluffy , most often they are dense and crumbly . We found that baking the potatoes on a bed of salt remedied these problems . Moisture that escaped the potatoes during baking was trapped in the enclosed pan , absorbed by the salt , and eventually reabsorbed by the potatoes , making their skins tender and their flesh light and fluffy . All we needed to do was fine-tune the variables . Using a hot oven and uncovering the potatoes toward the end of cooking ensured dry , crisp skin . A 13 by 9-inch baking dish provided plenty of space so that we did n't have to crowd the potatoes , and 2 1/2 cups of salt allowed us to thoroughly cover the bottom of the pan . I have found that salt roasting potatoes makes the skin crispy , without it getting hard . Like the above says , the potato itself seems fluffier . The way the salt seasons the potato is particularly nice as well . Incidentally , you can reuse the salt over and over again , so it 's not as wasteful as it might seem when you first consider the method . You 'll want to keep separate salt for things like this , though , since it picks up potato flakes and discolors a bit . EDIT The ATK method calls for covering the 9X13 baking dish ( for 4 potatoes and 2 1/2 cups of salt ) tightly with aluminum foil and roasting at 450F ( 232C ) for 1 1/4 hours . Remove foil , brush potatoes with oil , raise oven temp to 500F ( 260C ) and continue roasting for 10-20 minutes , until potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife and the skins are glossy .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
I usually put tinfoil down and then lightly oil it . If done carefully , the tray stays clean and does n't need to be washed and the foil can be thrown out ( or used for a second batch of veggies if you have one ) .
They should be fine . We sometimes do it in the morning for dinner and it gives no problem . Just make sure all the potatoes are covered with liquid , or those pieces would discolour .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
Any halfway competent chef should indeed be tasting . The only way to know whether you 're putting up good food is to check it yourself - and you 'd better be consistent if you want to continue getting paid for it . That 's not to say that all chefs do , nor that there 's any one standard for how frequently to taste or what method should be used . It 's pretty obvious that using your hands to taste or double-dipping is frowned on ... but shortcuts do happen when it 's the middle of the rush and you have 30 things to be doing at once . The best practice I 've personally seen in a commercial kitchen was to have a large set of spoons at each station , kept with the " business end " submerged in hot water with a mild sanitizer solution . Each chef also carried a few clean towels which they changed out copiously throughout the evening ( these have a million uses , from wiping hands dry to cleaning plate rims to handling hot pan handles ) . When tasting , we 'd grab a spoon , tap off excess water , wipe with a clean towel if necessary , take a small taste , and discard . This got to be as much of a habit as washing your hands after handling raw meat or wiping down your cutting board . The used spoons would be collected and washed regularly along with used pans and so on , then returned to the line . With a system like this there 's minimal risk for contamination and relatively little waste , except for frequent washing . At home , you can play things a bit looser , unless you like washing all of your spoons every night . Double-dipping is n't a big concern unless you 're ill , in which case you should n't really be cooking for people . You 're probably introducing your friends and family to just as much contamination in the form of dust and such simply by having them in your home . EDIT : I agree with Jefromi 's point in comments , so I want to emphasize this further . Safety aside , I strongly believe that tasting is necessary to make you a better cook . It teaches you how to make corrections on the fly and balance flavors , rather than simply following a recipe . As a matter of fact , even if you 're following a recipe , you will need to account for variation in things like produce . Fruits vary in their flavor depending on how ripe they are , where they were grown , whether it was a good season ... The vegetables that I get at my local market may be a slightly different variety from yours ... Meats vary widely depending on how the animal is fed and raised , even if you 're using the same cuts . Even when using packaged ingredients , you ca n't guarantee complete consistency unless you use the exact brand as written in a recipe . ( And I dare say that if your recipes uses only packaged ingredients , you can do much better . ) Recipes can not account for this sort of variation in anything but the broadest strokes . It 's up to you to balance all of this , plus the preferences of yourself and your guests . If you 're only tasting when you 've finished cooking , it 's probably too late to correct any problems . Like any skill , cooking ability is improved by practice and feedback . Tasting as you go provides you with immediate feedback on how the dish tastes and what it needs , rather than just at the very end when you sit down to eat . Learning how flavors interact , how much seasoning is enough , and so on are fundamentals . They 're what help you get creative , go beyond cooking someone else 's dishes , and start coming up with your own . So : yes , you should taste , and you should taste often . There are many ways to deal with safety concerns , but there is no other way to get better at fixing your mistakes before they hit the table .
It does n't really matter . A lot of people cook them with peel still on and peel it with their hands when cooked ( Careful , hot ! ) . You can peel them before you cook them , and then it 's just a question of taste I 'd say . Personally , I would peel off the white as well , though I 'm not sure about this .
I wo n't claim that this is universal , and I probably would n't try it with scotch bonnets or ghost peppers , but this is what I do with poblanos , seranos , jalapenos , and the like : Treat them like any other vegetable when you prep , using good knife skills , and a well sharpened knife -- good skills minimize how much you touch the product anyway . Do n't touch your eyes or face or anything you do n't have to . When you are done , wash your hands in soapy water . Here is how I would dice a jalapeno ( I like the red ones the best ) or similar small pepper . For this , I would use a paring knife . For a larger pepper , like a poblano , I would use chef knife or a santuko : Cut off the stem end so only the fleshy part of the pepper remains . It will be a little cone . Optionally , cut a tiny part of the tip , to make it easier to separate the flesh , but it is not absolutely required . Cut a a slit into the side of the pepper through the flesh and into the cavity ... then ... continuing the same motion ... ... turn your knife parallel to the flesh , and run the edge of the blade around the inside of the pod so that you are essentially peeling the skin from the core of seeds and membranes . This is much easier to do than to describe in text . Discard the seeds and membranes . Unroll the pepper , skin side up , and flatten the flesh of the pepper out , so it is like a piece of paper . It may split a little when you do this , that is fine . It is easiest to flatten with the outside facing up , but easiest to cut with the outside of the skin facing the cutting board . Turn the pepper sheet over , so it is skin side down . Cut it into long , thin strips -- juliennes . Cross-cut the juliennes into dice . If you want a hotter product , and a more rustic one , with a small pepper , you can simply : Cut of the stem end . Slice the remaining pepper into circles or coins , thinly . If you want very hot dice , you can then : Pile up the coins , and chop through them several times in the standard rocking motion with a chef 's knife .
The vegetables are likely to cook more during the reheating process , so if you do n't want that you 'll have to cook them less initially . They wo n't be the same as if you 'd stir-fried them to perfection and eaten them straight away of course , but this is something I do myself when preparing meals to reheat at work . So , basically , the answer to your question is " yes " .
It rather depends on the temperature of the room . Where I live , in the summer it gets hot and humid , and they should n't be out on the counter during the day , or they ferment . In winter ( like spring in the northern US , 45-70 farenheit ) they can be out for two days with no problem . My recommendation would be to soak overnight for morning use , or to soak during the day for evening use . It also helps to change the water every few hours , though this is n't critical . If you refrigerate them with the water , you get an extra half-day . Refrigerating drained gets another day or so . Either way , they should always be shaded , never in direct sunlight . If they do spoil , you 'll know , as they 'll have a sour/yeasty smell to them .
end question
start question
What 's the trick to wrapping tightly in plastic wrap ?
The wrap used in most grocery stores is n't the same as your household wrap . Most of the consumer brands of plastic " cling " wrap are now formulated from low-density polyethylene . It 's rolled very thin to give you the best price per unit of length , and has reasonable stickyness . Most stores use a product called " meat film " which is most commonly made from PVC . It 's a little thicker , more wrinkle-resistant to give the product contained inside a better appearance , and it 's stickier . The other thing that grocery stores do to make the seal better is they use a heat sealer on the plastic . These are heated pads where they 'll place a wrapped piece of plastic for a few seconds . It 's not enough heat to melt the plastic , so in most cases you can still pull it apart , but it is just enough to shrink the joint together , and pull it taut across the front of the packaging .
Short of the danger of splashing hot liquid on you , or the standard immersion blender dangers of having it slip and hit you , there 's no additional risk with using immersion blenders on hot mixtures . Making hot soups creamy is pretty much exactly what they are designed for .
The only way to be completely sure is to contact Foster Farms and ask them what their packaging is made of and whether or not it is a totally airtight seal . Everything else is speculation . There are , however , two data points on which to speculate , both from their <URL> , and this is more broadly applicable to any company that distributes food this way : Can I freeze chicken in its original wrapper ? Yes , the original packaging is fine for freezing up to two months . For longer freezing , over-wrap packages with foil , plastic wrap , freezer paper or plastic bags . Generally something that 's been properly vacuum-sealed will last much longer than that . The above would seem to indicate that it is not completely airtight and may even allow a small amount of moisture to get through . What 's the best method for thawing frozen chicken or turkey ? [ ... ] You can also defrost in your microwave following the manufacturer 's instructions . Remove chicken from the original package , and place on a microwave safe dish to defrost . ( emphasis mine ) This pretty clearly indicates that it is not microwave-safe , and proper vacuum bags that are safe for sous-vide are generally also microwave safe ( even the cheapo FoodSaver products claim that you can boil , steam , or microwave in the bag ) . So I am leaning quite heavily toward no - I do n't think that the original packaging is safe for sous-vide , given the various other statements made by the company . But again , the best way to know for sure is to contact them directly .
The way I do it is put 1-2 tbsp of oil in my pot , add 1/3 cup or so of corn , cover , and heat on medium until it starts popping , then turn down a bit and shake the pot occasionally until it is all popped . So , not oil free , but not a whole lot of oil either .
You can heat clarified butter to a higher temperature for two reasons -- you remove the milk solids , which can burn , and you remove the water , which will boil at 100 ° C and cause spattering . In baking , clarified butter 's lack of water means that it ca n't develop gluten as you would with simple melted butter . It 's actually more similar to other oils than it is to melted butter when baking . In the case of ghee , my understanding is that because it 's from a warm country , part of the reason for making it was as a preservative , as the ghee would have a longer shelf-life ( months ) than standard butter in the local climate .
I 've never done this , but what about filling the bowl with water , lowering the spinning basket into it so the lettuce shreds lift off , then dumping it out ?
In the Caribbean green plantains are treated much like potatoes . One technique that is common is twice-frying , usually with a soak in water either before the first fry , in between , or both . Soaking plantains allows them to absorb a little water to help steam the inside as it fries , much like one would do for American-style french fries ( UK : chips ) . One example of this technique is <URL> . The Puerto Rican classic cookbook " Cocina Criolla " by Carmen Valldejuli calls for soaking the plantain pieces in room temperature water with salt and crushed garlic for 15 minutes as well as dipping them in water immediately before the second fry . Like many potatoes , green plantains will often turn brown if left out in the air for too long after being peeled , soaking in water also helps prevent this from occurring as well as reducing the amount of free starch on the outside which can cause over-browning . Elsewhere , both in the Americas and Africa , green plantains are cut very thinly and fried into <URL> ( UK : crisps ) . These are usually 1-2mm thick and also benefit from presoaking . If you decide not to fry them you could also boil them in salted water like a potato or boil them in vinegar with onions , garlic , and spices to make an escabeche . You could also partially cook them in salted water or stock then bake them in the oven .
A microwave-safe container should n't be heated significantly by the microwave ( only by conduction from the food it contains ) . So , it should be fine , so long as the food is , and as long as the food does n't exceed its allowable temperature . You can test fairly easily -- put the container , partially filled with some water , in the microwave for a few minutes . Does the container heat up , possibly more so than the water -- especially where its not in contact with the water ? If so , I 'd be reluctant to use it in the microwave for that long . Some containers are microwave safe , but only for heating to maybe 160 ° F or so . A common example is LDPE ( often used for plastic wrap ) . Some ca n't take boiling for more than a short time ( e.g. , HDPE ) . Polypropylene should be fine , even with boiling . Go any hotter ( e.g. , filled with oil , which is probably insane ) and most will fail . If you 're lucky , the container will have a resin ID code on it , LDPE is # 4 , HDPE is # 2 , polypropylene is # 5 . Your microwave may not be fine with 40 minutes of strait microwaving , or with the steam buildup . You should probably check its manual . I assume also you 've read Jay 's comment about converting recipes , and that you 're doing something where 40 minutes wo n't result in charcoal .
Fine mesh sieve is the usual way , but the way you describe it , yours is not fine enough . Look in professional stores for a " chinois " , this is the kind of sieve you need . But yes , it will take a long time . In classic restaurants , the stock will be cleared before going through the chinois . This is done by floating a rack of eggwhite which bounds the stray proteins . It is at least as slow as the cheesecloth , but more nerve wracking , because you have to do it manually , and it is rather finicky and can easily go wrong . I remember reading about a modern trick of clearing which used gelatine and freezing the stock without a mesh or a rack , but do n't know any more what it was . Maybe somebody else has read it and can supply the details . Edit I returned home and looked the freezing method up ; it is listed in the book " Cooking for geeks " . It contains the sentence As the water in the stock freezes , it will push the impurities into the gelatin The book also has pictures . They show that you do n't end up with fine protein sediment clogging your sieve and finest slit in the stock . The first picture shows the drip-freeze filtered stock compared to the same stock filtered at 100 microns , the difference is large . The second picture shows that after the procedure , what stays in the sieve are cohesive pieces of gelatine with the particles trapped inside , not a film of the scum . So it seems that there is a reason for freezing first . For home use , I just do n't bother clearing my stock , I just use a tea sieve to remove the worst of the protein . When simmered without allowing it to boil , this produces reasonably good stock without all the fuss .
Martha 's Vinyard Magazine suggests that the diamater of the stalks is not directly related to their age as one might suspect : Some might assume thinner spears are younger and therefore more tender . The diameter , however , has more to do with the age of the plant itself and the particular asparagus variety . They go on to cite Cook 's Illustrated , saying : [ T ] hin and thick spears as equally sweet , nutty , and grassy , but ... thicker spears have a slightly better , more tender texture . The reason is that the fiber is somewhat more concentrated in thinner spears . You can peel asparagus if you choose to . Personally , I peel the base of thicker stalks . Mark Bittman recommends peeling from just under the flowers to the base of the stalk on the thicker stalks . Thinner stalks may be easier to saute or grill , and thicker ones more suited to steaming , poaching , and so on , but this is more related to the time it takes them to cook through . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
In a cup with water . You place them straight up in a small cup with a little water . Just like you would if you were storing flowers . You 'll want to store this in your chill chest on the top most rack ; to avoid any cross contamination from other possible food products ( chicken , etc ) . You may want to leave the rubber band on to allow it to stay tidy . If you must you can cover your asparagus cup with a zip lock bag on top . With this method we usually can store asparagus for 5-7 days . If you must keep them longer it maybe better to just freeze them in an air tight bag . after they 're dried out .
I do n't usually hull strawberries , but when I do I use a straw . The idea is that you push the straw up through the tip of the strawberry and it comes out at the stem . For pictures you can see <URL> are just Google " hull strawberries with a straw "
When I get this , it 's almost always old grease that did n't get washed off properly in the first place . We have some newer storage containers that are , for some reason , really strongly attractive to grease and have to be washed very carefully with lots of detergent or they 're sticky next time we go to use them . My usual solution is to rub the whole thing with undiluted dishwashing liquid and let it sit a minute or two . Then I rub/rinse with the hottest water I can stand until it 's all squeaky clean . This usually works . If your grease is several layers deep or really old , you might have to resort to a grease cutter like Formula 409 or one of the citrus-based degreasers , followed up with plenty of detergent . I would not use solvent any stronger than a commercial cleaning spray because of the risk of damaging the plastic . I also would not scour the plastic . The scratching will make it exponentially harder to get all the way clean , and the deepest scratches can harbor bacteria ( ask any home brewer who scoured his brew bucket how much it increases the risk of infection ) .
<URL> Freeze Brazil nuts , or soak them in water for several hours before cracking . Stand frozen nuts with the point facing up and hit with a hard object , such as a hammer , to crack . Crack soaked nuts with a nutcracker . Place the nut in the grip of the nutcracker so that the seam of the shell is subjected to the direct force . Use minimum force necessary to split the shell when squeezing , in order to avoid crushing the nut kernel inside . Rotate the nut while squeezing so the shell cracks slowly . Extract the kernel from the shell . Allow the kernels of soaked nuts to dry for a few hours after cracking . Read more : How to Crack Nuts | eHow.com <URL>
Assuming you bought a rice cooker designed by a Japanese company ( and apparently even other brands tend to meet that market 's expectations ) , the measurement is 1-gou , slightly more than 180ml , which , by no coincidence , is also the typical measure of a wooden sake , cup , and is closely associated with a historical sake bottle size ( approximately 1.8 l ) <URL> It turns out that this amount , 1 gou of dried rice , neatly corresponded to a typical serving of rice . In practice , most contemporary Japanese eat about 1.5-2 gou per day ; 1 gou of dried rice cooks up enough for 2 Japanese adults for one meal if you have several side dishes . There are other measurements that derive from the gou ( or perhaps the other way around ) , such as the koku , which was considered the amount of rice that a single person would consume over the course of a year . This is one of the human-centric forms of measurement that has survived the metric push ; you can find various examples of this in many otherwise metric-converted countries . It turns out some studies show that those metrics often make certain categories of estimation easier for people . Edited to cover the concern about matching the right amount of water : It 's worth noting that you do n't need perfect precision for the amount of water , as long as you cook with the full cycle and not one of the express cooking modes . I ca n't remember the exact scientific principle behind it , but perhaps something to do with osmotic pressure . Some people use the remarkably effective method of measuring a certain amount of space between the dried rice and the water based on the size of their forefinger segment or thumbnail . It apparently works well for almost any imaginable size of pan ( though you can have other problems with a pan too wide to have the rice cover the bottom ) . ( Some types of rice do prefer more water than others , but within a single type , you have a fairly flexible range for the water ratio )
To store fats , you should always use glass as plastics react to fats by absorbing some and perhaps discoloring or transferring flavors to your fat . Depending on use , I prefer to work with cold fat at the start as it has a much broader possible use and I do n't like to wait when I make biscuits , so I keep mine in the fridge . However , you gain very little extra life out of keeping it in the fridge and if you do n't keep it in a sealed container you run a very real risk of flavor transference there to . If you do n't make pastry dough or other such , your counter top is a perfectly acceptable place to store , as long as you use it up before it goes rancid . One thing to keep in mind is that fats can sometimes have very different shelf lives , so make sure you taste or smell before use , regardless of storage method .
If corn syrup works , it seems to me that simple syrup ( i.e. a saturated solution of sugar and water ) ought to work , too .
At restaurant supply stores , you can get much larger fine strainers than consumer stores normally have . Another type is the chinoise or china cap , which may or may not be suitable for your needs ; these typically have very fine mesh . These can be available in larger capacities . You may also have success with a tamis , which is a drum type strainer , although these are harder to find .
I 've had the same problem once . The first substitute is <URL> . But they 're not easy to find either . The second one is using <URL> . Tamales will be done in the same time and you could eat the leaf if you want . I 've tried it once and it came out great . Here it 's a recipe for <URL> . Here it is a graphic <URL> . They are written in Spanish , let me know if you need a translator ;) PS . My mexican mother in law used to do it with chard .
It depends on the moisture content . If the vegetables are wet when put in they will get mildew and go soft faster because the water has no place to evaporate . This is made worse when leafy greens are put in bags since they have so many nooks and crannies to hold water , and they seep out their own moisture content because of the large surface area . Try drying off the veggies first or putting them through a salad spinner to get as much water out of them as possible .
end question
start question
I fancy making flavoured ' spaghetti ' , any tips ?
Why actually , I have just the link for you . <URL> Is exactly what you are looking for . And <URL> for supplies .
Yes and no ; in smaller quantities ; no problem . If you sit down in the morning and eat bowl daily ; you will cause some serious long term issues . Raw flour is full of lectins and phytates ; which can pose a danger in higher amounts ; damage the lower GI and cause IBS ; other issues Nutrient problems can develop from the raw flour intake at higher amounts Bacteria standpoint ; no problem ; eat away . As the comment mentioned ; some fresh pasta could be harmful because of the raw egg .
The technique that many restaurants will use is to prepare the pasta ahead of time and store it in or on ice water . The chilled pasta may be then submerged briefly in boiling water and served .
I think you 're on the right track . Curds exist with many fruits , but the most common are all very strongly flavored ( citrus , raspberry , cranberry , etc ) . As long as you use a fruit that will add a lot of flavor before adding too much liquid ( or reduce the liquid out ) , you should be fine .
Kaffir Lime Leaves are using in Thai and Indian cooking in two ways : They may be added whole to a recipe ( such as a soup ) and behave like bay leaves ; diners take them out and do n't eat them . They can be ground fine as part of a spice paste and make the flavoring base for the recipe . There are a few recipes which use slivered kaffir lime leaves , but they are extremely fibrous and ca n't really be eaten unless ground down to a paste .
They are just a " product number " , and it may vary for the same kind of pasta from a manufacturer to another .
The most common preparation is tomato sauce and parmesan cheese . Of course , some Americans will tell you that the only truly American way to eat spaghetti is to top it with chili , then shredded cheddar cheese , then chopped onions , then red kidney beans . It 's hard to fully express the majesty of this dish , and should only be enjoyed on special occasions , like the Super Bowl . In Canada ( which I consider to be basically " American " ) , it 's also fairly common to add or replace the tomato sauce with pesto sauce . Soft goat cheese is another common additive . Perhaps these sound " Italian " but I 'd consider an Italian pasta to be something more like a bolognese , carbonara , alfredo , or even the trusty old butter/olive oil and parmesan cheese . You 'll almost never see tomato sauce combined with pesto sauce in an authentic Italian restaurant ( or in Italy ) , but it 's common in American home cooking .
Flash-freezing equipment would n't hurt , but for the normal home cook , the main things are to chill it as quickly as reasonably possible , package it with as much air removed as possible ( vacuum sealers help here ) in individual meal-sized portions , then freeze . Thaw in the fridge if possible , or by heating your vacuum-sealed bag in a water bath . ( Microwaves are pretty bad at heating frozen blocks of food and even with a lot of attention paid will tend to overheat part while other parts remain frozen . ) Choose recipes that work for the equipment you have , and adapt your weeknight process to combine the frozen ingredients with fresh ones . Soups , many sauces , chilis , beans and rice dishes freeze well under normal home conditions , as do some meat preparations ( the texture can change , and usually , the larger the cut of meat , the more likely it is that the change from freezing will be negative ) . Without flash-freezing , foods with a high water content tend to become mushy , so that the broccoli you steamed to perfection will most likely thaw out to be limp and potatoes may be mushy .
Replace your ladle with an ice cream scoop . You will be able to control the amount of dough for each waffle much easier . For my waffle iron and scoop I use two scoops . An additional advantage over a ladle , is that the dough releases much easier from a scoop , which reduces the probability of making a mess .
I 've been a fan of brining for a while and NO , adding flavouring to the brine wo n't make much if any difference in relation to the brining itself , which makes a lot of difference . I have employed my most wishful thinking many times with brine , on the basis of the fact that pretty much every reference to it in recipes , on cooking shows , etc. , always seems to promote the idea that the flavour will diffuse in the brine and be absorbed by the meat . This is some kind of " look at the Emperor 's New Clothes " tradition .1 I 've gone to ridiculous extremes to test this , sometimes adding many ounces of e.g. , paprika or thyme to < 1 gallon of very salty ( 4 tbls/quart ) brine with a chicken overnight -- which is actually too much time , a few hours is plenty with that much salt . In some cases I 've gone overboard with the salty part , but despite all the piles of herbs , powders , an entire bottle of hot sauce , etc. , you at best get maybe a hint of something on the surface . In short , my opinion now is that while brining is awesome for pork and poultry -- salty and moist meat being far superior to dry and bland meat -- adding something to the brine and expecting it makes a difference is a complete waste of time and materials . As per one of my comments on the question , I 'd guess the issue here is that brining exploits osmosis . From <URL> : Brining makes cooked meat moister by hydrating the cells of its muscle tissue before cooking , via the process of osmosis , and by allowing the cells to hold on to the water while they are cooked , via the process of denaturation . The brine surrounding the cells has a higher concentration of salt than the fluid within the cells , but the cell fluid has a higher concentration of other solutes . This leads salt ions to diffuse into the cell , whilst the solutes in the cells can not diffuse through the cell membranes into the brine . The increased salinity of the cell fluid causes the cell to absorb water from the brine via osmosis . The salt introduced into the cell also denatures its proteins . The proteins coagulate , forming a matrix that traps water molecules and holds them during cooking . This prevents the meat from dehydrating . So the idea is that the meat absorbs salt ions , which then causes it to absorb more water . This is through the cell walls , and I do not think large particles such as the stuff we might associate with " flavour " would be included . Of course , some of the brine may be drawn into the meat between the ( large congregations ) of cells , but this is probably not a significant volume . 1 . Some of these recipes call for really paltry amounts of flavoring too , an inadvertent testament to how nice the Emperor must look naked ( " Umm -- I can so taste the rosemary from the brine ! " . Hogwash . ) . They also often involve paltry amounts of time ( " brine for 20 minutes " ) , I suppose because if you can pretend to taste rosemary you can also pretend to taste salt and appreciate moistness . If you do n't have at least an hour , do not bother . At least quadruple that for a whole turkey .
tl ; dr Either way is fine . When making ice cream - your quest is to bind up water . Water crystallizes and makes ice cream icy instead of creamy . There are a lot of ways to keep water from freezing in ice cream from reducing the volume of water in the mix , to using natural antifreezes , to binding the water up with gums or starches . Sugar loves water . The water will eagerly hook up with sugar and wo n't be able to freeze . If you macerate your cherries two things will happen - 1 - Water will be drawn out of the cherries and 2 - The water that is left in them will be saturated with sugar and slower to freeze . The result is that the cherries will be softer , sweeter ( of course ) , be slightly more concentrated , and not freeze solid . If you do n't macerate them then they will be little chunks for cherry ice . Both ways are perfectly tasty and I 've had ice creams that do it either way . It just depends what you want to make .
There is a legal difference : according to Italian law , pasta ( which includes spaghetti ) is made only with durum wheat . Other countries also accept soft wheat . The difference is in the amount of protein ( mostly gluten ) : durum wheat has more , which in turn gives the pasta a somewhat snappier bite . Also , the cooked pasta stays eatable ( as in , non-mushy ) for a longer time . Moreover , some Italian pastas are extruded through traditional bronze dies that leave a slightly rougher surface that makes for better sauce adhesion . Avoid by all means all stupid Italian pastas made for tourists . Avoid stupid novelty shapes and ( most ) colored pastas . Some good brands with global distribution that will not let you down : Barilla , Agnesi , Garofalo , De Cecco ( thanks for the tip ) .
I have n't specifically tried to save that variety of squash , but I 've had good luck in general holding other varieties of winter squash for a few days by halving , sealing the cut side , and then refrigerating for . A few notes : If you have a large enough knife , just make a single cut through it . Either place it cut-side down on an appropriately sized dish with a flat bottom ( eg , a casserole dish ) , or cover the cut side with plastic wrap ... ( of plastic wrap , then set in the dish , so you do n't accidentally knock off the plastic wrap in the next couple of days ) . When it comes time to use the remaining half , if the cut surface is dry , shave a little off . Clean out the seed cavity when you 're finally going to use it . ( this allows you to scrape back down to moist flesh , and reduce evaporative loss ) How long you can hold it will likely be affected by things like how often you open your frdge . I 've never tried putting in the crisper after wrapping ( as I tend to have too much stuff in there already ) . If you 're looking to get the longest possible strands out of the squash , I think to need to cut it from stem to blossom end ... but that would increase the cut surface area . If that is n't a goal , it 's probably better to cut it across the stem-blossom axis .
It depends on how long the soup cooks for and whether you soak the barley or not . If the soup is going to cook for a couple of hours , you can just add unsoaked barley with everything else . Or you can soak the barley and add it towards the end of cooking . If the soup is going to be cooked relatively quickly , you should soak the barley and add it with everything else . Soaked barley ( soaked for a couple of hours ) needs to be cooked for about 30 minutes . It also depends on how soft you like the barley to be . Some people like it to near-disintegrate , some prefer it a little al dente .
In short , using port as a substitute for red wine will not wreck the dish . Though the flavour is different ( and richer ) and will make your bolognese taste different as a result , the taste should not be bad . I frequently do this as I am not a red wine drinker , and port keeps far better in an open bottle . I would recommend using slightly less than when using red wine , but this is highly subjective .
You may use all sorts of pumpkins and squashes ( a Cucurbita moschata or Cucurbita pepo may be called either , depending on variety ) to make a pie . The Halloween types may not be the best choice : they tend to be stringy , not very sweet , and sometimes over treated with pesticides . Instead look for the small varieties ( around 5 lbs . ) called Sugar , Long Pie , or Trickster . When making the pumpkin pur&eacute;e for a pie from scratch it is important to deal with the water content of the pumpkin . After you <URL> , you may need to use a cheesecloth to wring the pur&eacute;e .
With seared Tuna the point is to create a charred crust while leaving the inside mostly raw . It 's very similar to cooking a steak rare in that the secret is a very hot pan and a short amount of time . So get your pan as hot as you can , coat the cooking surfaces of the tuna steaks with a bit of oil with a high smoke point ( corn , canola , peanut - not olive oil or walnut oil ) , then fry the tuna for as little time as you can get away with . I 'd think 45-60 seconds per side . In case you are wondering the oil forms a good heat contact with the tuna , improving conductivity , it 's not for any flavor effect . Now you may have a stove that does n't get the pan hot enough in which case it takes too long to form a crust and the inside cooks more than you like , in which case you can try : Not letting the tuna thaw completely . If it 's still a teensy bit frozen in the middle the heat from the cooking will thaw it , not cook it . You could also try it straight out of the fridge Use a cooking torch . You can also use a plumbing torch , it 's the same thing except much cheaper
I believe ( although I am not sure ) that the majority of the stringiness of mashed sweet potatoes comes from the fibrous parts of the potato that are near the skin . If when you remove the skin , you remove a bit of the flesh as well , it should solve your problem .
The only thing that is even remotely possible in my mind is to use it akin to buttermilk or sour cream ( which are intentionally fermented products ) in baking . However , since the culture that fermented the milk was uncontrolled , I would not do so . I recommend discarding .
I think for Indian recipes you should in general look for an unstrained , set yoghurt . There are other factors that determine the final taste and texture of the yoghurt ( the bacteria , the type of milk , length of fermentation , ... ) but you may not have much choice w.r.t. other factors than these two : Production process : Set yoghurt is yoghurt that 's made the traditional way , it 's fermented in the pot that it 's sold in . Stirred yoghurt on the other hand is fermented before being packaged ; it 's a more industrialized production process which is cheaper , but results in a more sour , thinner yoghurt . Stirred yoghurt has a smooth , pourable consistency ; whereas set yoghurt is firmer . I got a bit confused when I was using stirred yoghurt the first time I tried making <URL> and the recipe told me to whisk the yoghurt till it was smooth . The pretty sour taste of the yoghurt also did n't go well with the spices , and the juice from the cucumbers made the already-thin yoghurt too watery . You could try fixing both problems by straining the yoghurt a bit and adding sugar , but it 's better and easier to just buy set yoghurt . The yoghurt 's packaging might say explicitly what type of yoghurt it is , but if it does n't or you do n't understand the language : avoid yoghurt that comes in " milk carton " - like containers , that most definitely means it 's stirred yoghurt . A plastic pot does n't mean it 's set yoghurt though , but it 's a better bet . Thickness : Strained yoghurt ( like " Greek-style yoghurt " in Europe and the USA ) is yoghurt from which the whey has been removed . It 's pretty thick and sometimes also referred to as " yoghurt cheese . " In India it 's used for example in the dessert <URL> , but if a recipe does n't specify that you should strain the yoghurt , you should assume it 's unstrained or briefly strained . Wikipedia <URL> : " In south Asia , regular unstrained yoghurt ( dahi ) , made from cow or water buffalo milk , is often sold in disposable clay pots . Kept for a couple of hours in its clay pot , some of the water evaporates through the clay 's pores . But true strained yoghurt ( chakka ) is made by draining dahi in a cloth . " Should you really only find strained yoghurt , you can probably just thin it back with water or milk . I should maybe add I do n't have first-hand experience with what yoghurt from India tastes like , but I 've observed that the ethnic shops in my area and one Indian take-away where I could peer into the kitchen all sell/use the exact same brand of yoghurt , which is an unstrained , set yoghurt with a mild ( not too sour ) taste .
end question
start question
Should I rinse canned beans before using them ?
I finally found what I 'm looking for , from the <URL> - some actual data on the subject ! They say that rinsing canned beans can reduce the amount of sodium by half , and also reduces the amount of complex sugars which humans ca n't digest ( but the bacteria in our intestines can , with uncomfortable results ! ) It appears that draining the fluid is likely to improve the flavor and texture of the resulting food by concentrating the flavor of the beans -- unless you 're following a soup recipe that specifically suggests retaining the liquid to thicken the soup . I still have n't found any information about what healthy nutrients might be lost by rinsing the beans , but the general consensus seems to be that it rinsing will do more good than harm in almost all cases .
It removes excess starch , so your sushi rice does n't turn into nasty glutinous slop . The texture of the rice is very important , so you 'll need to rinse it several times before you steam it . Make sure the water is nice and clear after the last time you rinse it , and make sure you buy <URL> or similar : if you use regular rice , you may not get good results . I would n't worry overmuch about the nutritional content of white sushi rice ( you can starve on a diet of it ) . It 's what you put into your sushi that 'll give it nutritional value .
From Greenfootsteps ' " <URL> " : Pick elderberries when they are fully ripe in early autumn . The bunches should be starting to droop downwards with the weight of the fruit . Use a fork or your fingers to gently prise the fruit away from the stalks . This can be a bit fiddly but you do n't have to be too perfect with it - a few bits of stalk will not matter .
It is perfectly safe to eat the peel in and of itself . You will need to make sure that you wash it properly , as it may be dirty . But beyond that , it 's simply a matter of taste . A lot of people do n't like the flavor / texture of the peel and so remove it . From a <URL> : Kiwi fruit skin is definitely edible , and there 's a lot of different theories about eating it . Kiwi fruit skin contains high levels of flavonoids , insoluble fiber and antioxidants : these substances all have a beneficial effect on your body 's metabolic functions ( flavonoids and antioxidants ) and on your digestive system and cardiovascular apparatus ( insoluble fiber ) . Common sense , however , should be practiced in this respect : while raw kiwi fruit skin contains these beneficial substances , it also tends to contain more than 99,95 % of of the pesticides in that particular fruit ( if they have been used ) , which largely outweighs the benefits from flavonoids and antioxidants .
All you need to do is put the liquid on a spoon and slowly lower it into the bath while tipping so it falls off . It may take a few tries but it is n't difficult to master . Naturally , larger spheres are a bit more delicate so will require gentle handling to remove from bath , rinse , and plate .
Reasons to wash your rice : Reduce/Control Starch levels Often when you 're cooking rice you want distinct grains of rice and for your rice to have texture . In the case of Chinese fried rice for example , you specifically want your rice grains to not stick to one another . If you 're talking white rice especially , there will be a lot more loose starch that will form a thickish paste if if you do n't rinse it away . To clean out impurities I imagine there was a time when there were a lot more impurities ( dirt , dust , bugs , etc. . . ) . I do n't know if that 's necessarily the case these days with modern manufacturing . If you 're concerned about your source , then this may be a factor for you . There 's also the <URL> that suggest rinsing to reduce levels of something like arsenic ( see <URL> on arsenic in rice ) ... I think 1 . is your bigger factor here though . Reasons to not wash your rice : It removes nutrients . This is true for fortified rice . See <URL> on the fortification process . Note , whole grain/brown rices are less often fortified ( I want to say they 're not fortified , but I actually do n't know for sure ) . So it would depend on what kind of product you 're buying and where it came from . You actually want to keep the extra starch . This is the case for things like risotto where the starch is what gives the dish it 's creaminess . <URL> that talks about the process .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
Do n't Rinse You should not need to do more than shake the excess marinade from your chicken , or if you want to be very thorough , pat it down with towels lightly . If you rinsed , you would be washing away from of the flavor developed by your marinade , and the seasoning at the surface of the chicken . Cook on The goal is to not put the chicken on the grill with so much left over marinade that it fails to cook through and dry . By the time you are done grilling , the chicken should be essentially dry at the surface with nothing left to curdle . The other goal of the grilling ( or putting in the tandoor , I imagine , if you have one ) is to develop the nice browned and delicious flavors , and that wo n't happen if there is still liquid yogurt on the surface . Type of yogurt The particular type of yogurt you use should not be a factor , since it should be fully cooked in the grilling phase . However , in general , very high fat dairly products ( like cream , or a yogurt made from full cream ) .
The same logic applies . The smaller the temperature difference between uncooked and cooked , the easier it will be to get an even amount of cooking all the way through . Especially with a fast method of cooking like broiling .
Cold , it gives the inside more time to come up to the same temperature with the outside , for more even cooking .
Salt ( Sodium chloride ) is salt . As a topping , flakes are commonly used purely for presentation purposes only . The taste is the same , but gets more intense as the salt particles get finer , so use less if the salt is in powder form As an ingredient , use any form you are happy with , and is economical to use . Once salt is dissolved into water it will be identical to any other form of salt For health reasons , finely powdered salt is preferable as much less is required to impart a salty taste
Perhaps you got what Argentines call tira de asado , which looks like <URL> . If so , Argentines salt it well and barbecue it on a slow heat for about an hour , the majority of the time with the bone side to the heat . At home I would try cooking it in a very low oven for a couple of hours . Slow braising would also work . If what you have lacks even the thin layer of meat you see in the picture then you got tira de asado after they took off the tapa ( cover ) de asado . Then you basically got stock bones . Make soup . ( But skim off the abundant fat that will accumulate . )
Coffee can be used for a variety of things BESIDES drinking straight . Off the top of my head , you can use less-than-perfect beans for : Chocolate mousse and cakes : brew into coffee , and add to the chocolate mix for a richer flavor Ice cream and sorbets . Coffee ice cream is awesome , and the cream will mask defects Chocolate-covered coffee beans . These make a great pick-me up snack for mornings , sweet and caffeinated . Coffee-flavored simple syrup , for baking and cocktails . Use equal weights coffee and simple syrup . Compost . Grounds compost very well , especially if used In a pinch , stale beans also make great projectiles . Got squirrels on your bird feeder ? Coffee bean slingshot !
The exterior coating on an egg is known as the " cuticle " . It helps to protect the ( porous ) shell and minimize moisture loss , but it eventually breaks down as the chick matures and prepares to hatch . The reason that eggs in the US are typically sold under refrigeration is because they are washed with warm water and detergent to remove the large amount of bacteria that are deposited on the shell while being laid . Once the cuticle is removed the egg becomes more porous . Most bakeries that are using whole eggs will typically keep several flats out at all times to have them at room temperature . Eggs will store better and longer in the refrigerator but if being used frequently and fairly quickly , they can also be left at room temperature . Howard McGee in On Food &amp; Cooking says that egg quality deteriorates as much in one day at room temperature as it does four days under refrigeration .
Not a great idea . The oven cooks from the outside in , so by the time your chicken is done on the outside , it 'll still be uncooked on the inside . If you cook it longer so it cooks through , the outside will be as tough as shoe leather and the inside will be just lukewarm enough to encourage microorganisms ( that may have survived the freezer ) to fester , which could sicken you . Put it in the pan the night before , cover it ( or not , as Alton Brown sometimes suggests ) , and put the pan in the refrigerator . When you get home from work or whatever , preheat the oven to 450 F , season it , and bake until done . When is it done ? It 's done when : The chicken is done when an instant-read thermometer reads 165 degrees F when inserted into the thickest part of the thigh ( the legs of the chicken should wiggle easily from the sockets too . ) Remove the chicken to a platter and let stand for 10 minutes , so the juices settle back into the meat before carving . <URL> Note that some would say 165 F is over done , but safe is better than losing a kidney to E. coli or other nasty microbeasties .
After a bit of googling , I found <URL> which suggests that searing twice ( both before and after ) might be preferable .
Its going to depend on the type of packaging and also the freezer . Lightly wrapped in plastic wrap ( or worse , paper ) will freezer burn fairly quickly . Vacuum-sealed will last much longer . A self-defrost freezer with wide temperature swings will burn quicker . A manual defrost chest freezer much slower . Worst case is probably around a month or less ( not really sealed , freezer with wide temperature swings ) , best case ( vacuum sealed in stable temperature chest freezer ) over a year .
If you use your whole beans within a week it 's probably not worth storing it in the refrigerator or freezer . Coffee beans should be stored in a cool , dry place . They can last 1-3 weeks in your pantry . Ideally you should store them in an airtight opaque container . They degrade quickly in the presence of light , heat , or oxygen . If you want to store them longer , then they will last 3-4 month in the freezer . Source : <URL>
I see no reason that a cast iron waffle pan should be treated differently in regards to seasoning than other cast iron . Since it wo n't be cooking anything with significant fat in it naturally , if anything it may be more important ! Seasoning is both for non-stick reason and non-oxidizing reasons . Season it well on your own , then use it with some fat ( of some kind ) very lightly brushed on to keep it well . Only brushing right before use will keep one good likely , but would take a long , long time to naturally season since a large portion of the fat will immediately get used by the food . Cast iron gets gummy if you either 1 ) season with a spray like Pam consistently or 2 ) do n't cook your seasoning long enough and/or high enough . Use a fat , bacon fat , would be great here and season away - properly . In regards to seasoning , I recommend checking out <URL> , as its unneeded to replicate detailed information elsewhere in the site .
I 've heard the same recommendation before - the idea is that if asparagus is very thick ( say , 1/2 inch or more in diameter ) , and if the bottom is much thicker than the top of the spear , then peeling it will help it to cook more evenly . If you have particularly thick asparagus that seem tough , you may want to peel the bottom section . First , chop or snap off the bottom inch or so , as it will most likely be inedibly tough . Then peel the next 2-3 inches up . You 'll want to lay the asparagus down on a flat surface to do so , so as not to snap it while peeling . I 've never had asparagus from a grocery store that was tough enough to warrant this , but it can happen with homegrown , for whatever reason .
end question
start question
What are the main differences between sugarcane jaggery , rapadura , and panela ?
If your question is if we can , the answer is yes . Rapadura = brown sugar tablet . The brown sugar is very similar to panela and jaggery . The difference is the source of raw material , and the origin of the country where it is processed obtain the sugar . Jaggery is in Asia , brown sugar and panela or rapadura in many Latin American countries .
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
" Filter " coffee in general , is coffee beans that have been roasted and ground and is for use in coffee making machines . This makes ' fresh ' coffee that may have a variety of qualities not found in instant - such as sweeter or more distinct flavours , etc. . " Instant " coffee is normally a coffee that has already been made ( they had the fun already ! ) and is dried ( usually through freezing ) into a dehydrated state , hence we just add water and get coffee . I would think that most people who have drunk proper ( freshly made ) coffee would prefer the flavour , quality and effects from caffeine , over that of instant . For me , instant is a back up , in case the real stuff runs out , but I feel always tastes a little woody and not as satisfying in terms of a caffeine hit . There are several coffees available now - Kenco Millicano is one - that offer both instant and some kind of coffee bean , but all I see is coffee grinds in the bottom of the cup , and not much difference in flavour .
Jaggery does n't require any kind of soaking . It 's usually added either while sautéing or if the dish is gravy based , while its boiling . Jaggery usually softens up when heated and gradually <URL> with other ingredients just as salt or sugar would . The hard <URL> of jaggery are difficult to break into pieces and its easier to grate it .
A pizza stone in a normal oven will only get the maximum temperature of the oven ( probably not more than 280 ºC / 530 ºF ) . A specific pizza oven will gett hotter ( the one you linked gets 390 ºC / 735 ºF and , indeed has a stone inside ) . If you want to get Italian style pizzas , go for the pizza oven . They need that high temperature in order to be ready in ( ideally ) 90 seconds . Those Ferrari ovens are one of Italian 's favourite ones , albeit they 'll need a bit more time than 1.5 minutes achievable in wood fired traditional pizza ovens . You ( probably ) wo n't be able to achieve those high temperatures with a normal home kitchen oven , unless you have a pyrolytic home oven , and hack it in order to cook in it during the pyrolysis cycle . As for the waiting time between pizzas using a stone , consider it as a capacitor ( or a rechargeable battery ) : It takes heat ( until is soaked up ) , and then gives it back . Once you make 1 pizza ( or a loaf of bread ) , it needs to soak ( a bit ) again .
Differences are mainly a question of origin . Speck comes from Tyrol ( it actually means " bacon " in german , which is misleading ) and is prepared with a specific blend of spices , usually including juniper , Jamon Serrano from Spain ( it means " mountain ham " in spanish ) and is a dry-cured ham , and prosciutto just means " ham " in italian . There are plenty of differences in flavor , consistency and aspect , depending on the difference of preparation : ripening , spices and herbs and so on .
The choice of one onion over another is really going to come down to personal preference based on color and flavor . Red and white onions are usually milder in flavor than yellow onions which is the reason they 're often the choice for hamburgers and sandwiches . Yellow ( sometimes referred to as " Spanish " ) onions tend to have a more pungent flavor . Sweet onions ( Vidalia , Maui , Walla-Walla , Texas 1015 ) develop more sweetness and fewer sulfuric compounds due to the mineral content of the soil that they 're grown in . This is why you can have onion sets ( small bulbs ) from any of these varieties but they wo n't necessarily be sweet ( or as sweet ) because a lot of it has to do with the makeup of the soiling they 're grown in . Two years ago I hosted Jeanne Jones ( syndicated writer of " Cook it Light " column for King Features syndicate and writer of over 33 cookbooks including " Canyon Ranch Spa Cookbook " ) for guest chef cooking classes . If I recall correctly , she said she used primarily white onions because they have a lower sodium content than any other type . Did that " mean black eyed pea salad " recipe happen to come from a certain " Low Country Cooking Class " ? If so , I used it for two reasons : not everyone will have access to Vidalia onions and it provides additional color .
Pan frying means letting the food sit in the pan and occasionally stirring or flipping . It tends to be done with larger pieces of food , and at a medium to medium-high heat . Sautéing means shaking the pan back and forth - making the food " jump " , if you 're translating directly . It 's done at a high heat , for a short time , usually with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped ingredients . Shallow frying , according to some references , refers to the food being partially ( halfway ) submerged in hot oil and flipped once , as opposed to deep-frying where the food is fully-submerged the whole time .
With chicken and turkey , the most important " trick " to cooking it is to make sure the dark meat gets done before the white meat dries out , and to make sure the skin crisps up somewhat . Duck is all dark meat , and has a thick layer of fat that must be rendered out . There is not a lot of danger in drying out the breast meat like with a chicken . Like Martha said , it 's best to make a few shallow cuts in the skin over the breast ( do n't go all the way through to the meat ) to help the fat render out . A simple ( western ) roasted bird would be cooked at 350 & deg ; F for about 1 hour 45 min , with the oven turned up to 500 & deg ; F for another 15 minutes to crisp up the skin . There is a LOT of fat rendered out , so it 's best to roast in a sturdy roasting pan , on a rack ( so it does n't sit in the fat ) , and drain the fat about an hour into cooking ( save the fat , though ; it 's delicious ) . Personally , I think duck is easier to cook , but it 's definitely different from roasting a chicken .
Shao hsing is just another romanization of mandarin Chinese ( Wade Giles ) for Shao xing : <URL>
Good question @mfg . I hope I can help a little bit . The basics behind the egg wash are to provide for a couple different thing . These being shine , crispness , and color . Shine The shine is primarily provided by the egg yolk . The higher concentration of yolk the more shine . Crispness This come from the egg whites . The whites make things a little crispy and sometimes can crackle a little bit ( mainly when usually by themselves ) . Color This comes from the fat and protein . Leaving the yoke in along with the shine will add color . You can add water to lighten the color a bit . I find that using the white also dilutes the color a bit but not as much ( but the white also makes it crisp ) . Add cream or milk to get it a little bit darker . Salt I often find people adding salt to an egg wash . I does provide some flavor to the crust , but I have noticed that for some reason ( when using a whole egg ) it does allow it to get a little darker than it would normally . Sugar Like salt it adds flavor ( sweetness ) to the crust . And it will also add some color . Especially if baking at a higher temp and using a raw or brown type sugar . Alcohol I have seen the use of alcohol quite a number of times . From the results I have seen it behaves like water . Although not the the same degree . My guess is that it has to do with how fast the alcohol evaporates . As far as flavor , I ca n't say that it added much at the levels used . I did once definitely get a hint of a bourbon being used in the wash on a pretty plain white loaf . But they did mix in quite a good amount of bourbon to just an egg yolk . That is all I have really used myself or seen . I am sure that you can use other liquids although I do n't know what vinegar would do . Just keep in mind if they are high in fat , protein , or sugar they will add color . Otherwise they will lighten the color . I have also seen melted butter just used as a wash . It adds a nice color and buttery flavor . I have n't seen it added to egg wash but I would assume you could add to egg yolk to get a shine and probably darker color than cream/milk . Another important thing to remember is to beat your wash well when using for a bread coating . Unlike if your just using the was was to seal say a ravioli . If your egg was is spotty not one nice fully incorporated mixture your crust can also be spotty .
Pies originally were specifically to denote enclosed items ( the crust sealed the item that was to be eaten ) . In many cases , the crust was n't actually eaten -- it was a nasty charred thing that was discarded . In time , pie crusts improved to the point at which you 'd eat the whole thing ... but the star was the filling , not the crust . Tarts , on the other hand , are closer to a shortbread cookie with some sort of a topping . The crust is typically a critical part of the item , rather than just being a container for something else . ( which in part is why people mention tarts being more shallow ; there 's a higher proportion of crust to filling ) . So , my best attempt at determining if I should call something a pie or a tart . Note that these are in order . ( as I 'm trying to make sure that ' pizza ' is a pie , not a tat ) fully enclosed by crust : pie full bottom crust , with a crumb or lattice top : pie no crust at all : not a tart , but not a pie , either . has no sugar or fat in the crust : pie chewy , flaky or crumb crust : pie not structurally sound enough to be picked up and eaten one-handed : pie was cooked in a tart pan : tart baked without a pan : galette over 2 " / 5cm tall ( not counting whipped cream or berries ) : pie less than 6 " / 15cm across : tart shortbread crust : tart ... I have no idea what I 'd categorize thing that did n't match something already .
Dark sesame seeds are more common in Indian cooking . I personally think that they have a more intense taste . They are also smaller , for what little difference that makes . I would n't rush to use them to make tahini , because the color would be surprising and I suspect that the flavor would be a bit bitter .
A regular electric oven uses a large coiled resistor as a heating element . A large electric current is passed through this element which generates heat , similar to the tungsten filament of an incandescent light bulb . An induction stove does n't actually generate heat itself , but rather induces it the pot or pan . It does this using a rapidly oscillating magnetic field . This field induces an electric current in a ferromagnetic pan which generates heat , thus heating the food . Induction stoves are faster , safer , and more energy efficient than traditional electric stoves . It requires significantly less electricity to create the magnetic field than it does to drive enough current through a resistor to make it heat up . They are safer because they do n't actually generate heat themselves . After taking a pot off the " burner " ( glass surface ) it quickly begins to cool . With regards to differences in the cooking process , there 's not much . You just need to be aware that it heats up much more quickly and cools down much more quickly than a traditional electric stove . It does affect your choice of pans however . All aluminum pans will not work , nor will some lower quality stainless steel ones . If a magnet sticks to the pan then it will work just fine . The pan must also have a flat bottom to make full contact with the surface .
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
Both crispy and caramelized onions are cooked for a long time , and will be very brown . However , they are cooked slightly differently . Caramelized onions are usually cross-cut on the onion to release its moisture , and then cooked over very low heat in a crowded pan , stirring infrequently , so that they gradually release their sugars and liquid and it turns to caramel . Depending on the onions and desired result , you may even cover them , an add a little liquid and/or sugar . The end result is very soft and very sweet . Arabic-style crispy onions are cut pole-to-pole in order to avoid rupturing cells in the onions . They are then fried over medium heat in an uncrowded pan , stirring regularly . This lets them dry out and become brown and crispy , even burning on thin ends . These onions should be a mix of crispy and chewy , and more savory than sweet .
I very quickly found nutritional information for storebought ( Swanson ) <URL> and <URL> . As you 'd expect , neither one contains all that much protein . The stock does contain substantially more : 4g per cup compared to 1g - this should also be expected , since stock has some gelatin in it , and gelatin is mostly protein . Of course , it 's commercially made ; I imagine you 'd be hard-pressed to find good nutritional data for homemade stock and broth .
The main goal with temperature is to kill anything nasty . Those nasties die based on temperature and exposure . Much like a human could live forever at 95 degrees , for a long while at 110 , shorter while at 150 , and would die instantly at 750 , so for all the stuff in Pork . 160 is considered a safe temperature because at 160 , everything dies instantly . The FDA has a chart for all this , <URL> . You 'll see that even 120 degrees is safe IF you cook it for 21 hours ! I cook a lot of sous vide , so these temperatures and times are easy to get and be precise about . The thing you need to be careful about is that the time table shows the amount of time that the whole piece of meat needs to be at a given temperature , so make sure you heat it through before you start counting . I 'll regularly do pork chops in the 135 range , and it 's lovely and moist without the stringy overcooked texture you get when well done .
I had to consult my copy of Bread Baker 's Apprentice by Peter Reinhart to be sure , but here is a quote : There are two types of firm , or dry , pre-ferments and two types of wet pre-ferments . The firm pre-ferments are known as pâte fermentée and biga . The wet pre-ferments are called poolish and levain levure . ... Biga , an italian style of firm pre-ferment , differs from pâte fermentée in that it does n't have any salt in it . Also , rather than cutting off a piece of finished bread dough to hold back as an improver , a biga is made specifically to be used as a pre-ferment . So , it seems the main difference lies in the hydration of the dough , where a poolish is made with a ratio of equal water and flour . There also seems to be a few other differences . A biga apparently uses .5 percent yeast to flour , while a poolish uses .25 percent . Mr Reinhart does not say anything about a concrete difference in final result between these methods - just that a ' wet ' pre-ferment is faster . Faster in the sense that in the same time-frame a poolish will develop more flavor and character than a dry pre-ferment . Sadly I 've personally only used a wet pre-ferment , since it is easier to handle . Just whisk it prior to bed time with a wire whisk and mix in the rest of the ingredients the next day . Having a full blown dough makes it more difficult to incorporate the rest of the ingredients .
<URL> is a style / kind of a sauce that originated in Napoli usually made with tomatoes , garlic , herbs , and onions . A spaghetti sauce only says where to sauce is used ( obviously on <URL> ) but does n't say anything about what the sauce is exactly like . There are <URL> which are basically spaghetti + sauce : <URL> -- which literally translates to " spaghetti mariner 's style " <URL> -- " spaghetti with garlic and oil " , originated in Napoli <URL> -- " spaghetti whore-style " <URL> -- " spaghetti coal worker 's style " and , uhmmm ... <URL> -- an Italian-American invention
end question
start question
Is pork for bo ssam made entirely without oil ?
YUM ! I lived in Seoul for a year , Bo Ssam is one of the best things I 've ever tasted . You 're using pork shoulder ( butt ) right ? If so , no oil is necessary . There is plenty of fat in the pork .
Properly ? You throw it in a pit with hard wood coals for at least 8 hours . Of course we do n't refer to that as roasting . :) Oven roasting is easier . Turn the oven on to 250F or so . Put something flavorful on the roast . Stick in a probe thermometer and put it in the oven . Remove when the thermometer reads 150F . Let it rest for a few minutes before carving . For more color and fat rendering you can roast at 450F for 10 minutes before dropping the oven to 250F and putting in the thermometer . Flavorings are varied of course . Apple works well .
100 ° C for 7 hours sounds just about perfect . The meat will be meltingly tender by then . In fact I think you could go even lower on the temperature if you like , say 80 ° C or 90 ° C. Of course , if you want to be absolutely sure , check with the thermometer , but unless you know that your oven is unreliable or you happen to be in possession of the largest pig shoulder in the world I am 100 % sure it will be more than done in 7 hours on 100 ° C. Good luck !
There certainly is such a thing as pork stock , it 's made the same way as beef and chicken stock - by cooking down bones to extract the flavors . With beef you use beef bones , with pork you use pork bones . Supermarkets stock the products that make economic sense , they do n't carry items which wo n't move - especially if they have a very limited shelf life . Beef , chicken and vegetable stocks are the most widely used ones in many parts of the world , so they will carry those as they have a good chance to be sold . Pork , lamb , and fish stocks can be found in supermarkets in areas where enough of the customer base will buy it . If you ca n't find it in your local supermarket then there may be specialty stores ( online or bricks and mortar ) which you could get it from . Butchers may carry it as well . If not then making stock is very simple , all you need is some bones , vegetables , a heat source and some time .
No trick . It 's par-cooked , cooled , and held cold until service . Then when it 's on order , you finish the cooking . That is true for most long-cooked dishes .
They say to cook until 190F because that 's the temperature at which the stuff that actually makes your slow-roasted pork moist , the collagen , fat , etc. is breaking down and coating the meat . Less than that and you 'll have all those bits still intact in your shoulder , which you do n't want . ATK explains this in their <URL> on the recipe : LOW OVEN Just like in a pot roast , cooking the pork low and slow ( 325 degrees for 5 to 6 hours ) pushes the meat well beyond its " done " mark into the 190-degree range , encouraging intramuscular fat to melt , collagen to break down and tenderize the meat , and the fat cap to render and crisp . ATK 's foot and header notes have taught me a lot over the years and I highly recommend them .
There are two levels to this question . If you are using modern whipping cream as a starting point , then the trick for a longer lasting whipped cream is stabilization . If this is some farm bought milk you are skimming the cream from , then you have the additional problem that your cream is not fatty enough . Modern creams are concentrated with a centrifuge . To get good whipped cream , whip it cold until it <URL> . Stabilize the whipped cream by hanging it in a cheese cloth in the refrigerator or by adding gelatin.To use the gelatin , dissolve 2 teaspoons of unflavored gelatin into 2 tablespoons of cold water . Work out the lumps . After the gelatin expands , mix in a quarter cup of cream and heat the mixture to dissolve the gelatin . Cool over ice and mix a bit . Complete 2 cups of cream and proceed as you would to finish your whipped cream .
First , the recommended minimum cooking temperature for pork is 145 so you can cook them a little less than you already are . Also , keep in mind that meat continues to cook after it is removed from the pan/cooking element . The residual heat will produce what is known as " carry over cooking " which can range from 5-15 degrees , depending on the size of the item and how long it sits . Pork chops are n't going to continue rising as high as a large roast that has a greater amount of residual heat built up . Also , it is very difficult to get an accurate reading on temperatures for chops and steaks with a thermometer so it 's really best to learn to determine doneness through touch . For pork you 're looking for a medium doneness so touch your middle finger to your thumb . That will contract the fleshy part between the thumb and index finger on the same hand . Poke that with the index finger from your other hand . It should feel somewhat springy with just a little firmness . That 's how your pork ( or medium-done steak ) should feel when it 's ready to be removed . As for other things you might consider ... Brining will pull moisture into the pork so that it 's less likely to dry out during the cooking process . A brine is a mixture of water , sugar , and salt . Additional flavors may be added but this would be a basic moisturizing brine . Through osmosis , the liquid is pulled into the cells of the meat . As the meat cooks it retains it 's juiciness due to the fact that salt helps to retain water . The flavor is enhanced through any seasonings that were also introduced to the brine as they will be carried into the cells of the meat as well . Basic Brine : 1 qt . water , 1/2 cup kosher salt , 1/2 cup sugar . Add the sugar and salt to the water and stir until dissolved . Submerge meat in brine and refrigerate if brining for an extended period of time . Plan on about 1 hour per pound of meat . When you 're ready to cook , remove the meat from brine , pat dry and then season as you normally would and rub with a little oil before broiling , grilling , searing , etc. . I hope that provides some help !
Capsaicin is oil/fat-soluble so try washing your hands with a little whole milk , or rub with sour cream or vegetable oil and see if that helps . Just as you can get it in your eyes if you rub them with your fingers , I 'm sure you can easily transfer it to your baby . I 'm just surmising here , not speaking from experience so if you try any of these , be sure to let us know how they worked ... or what you did instead .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
A roux is just cooking flour in an equal amount ( or thereabouts ) of fat . If you 've already done it in butter , you already know what you are doing . Butter is tricky because there is some water left in the butter and the fat itself has a low smoke point . After making a roux with butter , another fat is easy . Butter contains water , but it 's not so picky that the small amount of water matters as far as measuring the butter ; it 's more about compensating for the butter 's behavior and not allowing it to burn . Do the same thing with any oil as you have with butter , and you will be fine . If anything , you will find it easier with another fat . Just go roughly 50/50 and take your time .
Being Filipino , I totally applaud you for such an excellent choice of an entree . The enemy of all fried food is moisture . Think of ... potato chips . Immediately after you fry , make sure you let the food cool at room temperature before packaging . I would store the lechon in a non air-tight container , like a KFC bucket/box with parchment paper . Paper bags are good options as well . After the food has substantially cooled , feel free to refrigerate . Do n't put your lechon in a sealed tupperware container while hot , as condensation from water evaporating from the meat while it is hot will often form and make your food soggy . Bring on the Mang Tomas and have at it .
I would use it for anything other than deep frying or high temperature frying . It would be great for anything that requires oil but not cooking , like hummus .
In my " expert " opinion as a great lover of all things pork , I say yes , that marinade will be fine overnight . It 's quite acidic , and that 's a concern , but it 's not so acidic as to create mush . You 'll be fine marinating overnight . As a matter of fact , I 'm surprised that the recipe does n't say " 2 hours up to overnight " .
YUM ! I lived in Seoul for a year , Bo Ssam is one of the best things I 've ever tasted . You 're using pork shoulder ( butt ) right ? If so , no oil is necessary . There is plenty of fat in the pork .
Well , at least here in germany it really is common to make liverwurst with beef liver ( or more often and expensive : calf liver ) . So go ahead - you really wo n't regret it ! Taken the percentage of actual liver in liverwurst you wo n't taste any difference , though I 'd say beef liver tastes better .
A Southerner will probably tell you that there is no type of BBQ sauce to go with this type of pulled pork because it 's not actually real pulled pork ... or real BBQ . Authentic pulled pork is smoked , and that comes with a completely different set of pairings . This is technically just braised , shredded pork . Which is not meant as a criticism , mind you - I often make a similar recipe in the winter time using a dutch oven . But terminology is important here because there 's a huge difference in flavour between pulled pork and braised pork . I 'll note for the record that any kind of slow-cooking will make a pork shoulder fall right apart ; you do not need the root beer ( which is n't that acidic anyway , and <URL> ) to tenderize the pork . The heat and moisture do that all by themselves , although root beer is as good a choice as any if you 're braising . Now onto the flavouring . Because the braise , unlike smoke , only minimally flavours the meat , you 're going to need strong flavours from elsewhere . If you 're really trying to mimic an authentic Southern-style pulled pork then you need to incorporate the smoky flavour somehow , which means using a smoky BBQ sauce ( hickory is common ) or better yet , incorporate this flavour at the very beginning of the cooking process by applying a dry rub containing smoked paprika or including a small amount of liquid smoke in the braise . If you do use a rub then the other flavours are up to you - there are plenty of recipes out there - just do n't use salt in it because pork already has plenty . As with any braise , stick to aromatics like garlic/onion powder , various chili powders/peppers , cinnamon , etc. . Once you 've successfully incorporated the smoke ( or what passes for smoke in indoor cooking ) then a little sauce goes a long way . Definitely incorporate some of the leftover braising liquid so as not to waste those delicious drippings - I use about half of it but that 's with a much milder braise . Ketchup and dijon mustard in a 50/50 to 60/40 ratio is very simple and surprisingly effective when mixed in with the juices . If you still find this to be lacking punch , you can throw in some cider vinegar , which pairs well with both the pork shoulder and your root beer braise . I actually boil off the pan ( after reserving some braising liquid ) and use cider vinegar as a deglazer for the fond , but since you 're using a crock pot ( or equivalent ) , you probably wo n't have much/any fond and this would require an extra vessel , so ... just throw a splash or two into the finished sauce , and reduce if that makes it a bit watery . Worcestershire sauce is also a good way to punch up any homemade sauce , and if it starts to get too intense or tangy from either that or the vinegar , tone it down with some brown sugar or molasses if you have any . If you 're dead-set on following the recipe to the letter , then , as above , I think I 'd choose a hickory or mesquite sauce , something smoky and not overly thick . Some of the better brands/products will actually include a small amount of alcohol , like whisky or bourbon . Almost all will contain onion , garlic , paprika , sugar , molasses , and vinegar ( often cider vinegar , as above ) - not surprisingly , exactly the same kinds of ingredients as I 'm suggesting in the dry rub and homemade sauce .
Any of those will work , but you want a rim to prevent any drippings from making a mess in your oven . In general , the lower the sides , the better for overall air circulation around the roast , but it is not essential . If you want to be able to deglaze the pan , avoid the ceramic or glass pan , as they can not be used stove-top . Using celery ( and carrots ) as a make shift roasting stand is very effective . They will add their aroma to the pan juices , which is often a good thing . ( Note that by the time the roast is done , they are usually spent and not worth eating . ) IF you do n't want the flavor from vegetables , any small rack which will fit will work . If you do n't have one , you can improvize one by crumpling up aluminum foil into a long snake shape , and coiling or zig-zagging it on the pan just large enough to fit the roast . For a slow roasted pork shoulder , you could also go without any rack or elevation , at the cost to some small amount of crust development on the bottom . Depending on your desires , this may or may not matter -- when I do an indoor pork shoulder for pulling , I do n't bother with a rack .
It can . There 's nothing wrong with braising or stewing with a stainless steel pot . Just know that if you brown your meat before stewing it , it will cook faster in a stainless steel pot than in a cast iron or enameled cast iron pot , because cast iron retains heat well and conducts it evenly . So be careful not to over-brown your meaty bits . Sometimes , braising on the stovetop is desirable , especially if you want to further reduce your liquid . When we cook in our commercial kitchen , half the time we braise in the oven with our enamel-ware , the other half we do in a stainless steel stockpot on the stove .
REDACTED . Botulism growth is inhibited at pH of 4.6 or lower . The pH of this recipe is lower than 4.6 because of the vinegars . <URL> After re-reading the recipe , I think the OP is right . This is not the safest recipe out there . For a great pickling recipe that is safe , try this : <URL>
end question
start question
Is it better to fry or grill a steak ?
Generally speaking , frying gives a better crust due to the higher direct heat producing more Maillard flavours . A good , heavy , screaming hot pan is required . Oil the steak , not the pan , with vegetable or groundnut oil ( olive oil will burn ) , and baste with butter towards the end for extra flavour . If your steak is thick , you might try a reverse sear - roast the steak at about 150 ° C until the centre is 10 ° C off your desired doneness level ( if you do n't have a digital probe thermometer , invest the small amount they cost , it is completely worth it ) , then sear the outside on your mega hot pan . This avoids you having to overdo the outside just to get the inside right .
Do n't let the tail wag the dog . When smoking , you want to figure out time and temperature first and worry about smoke second . This can obviously vary widely . That said , there are things you can do to get more smoke going : If you can smell it , you 'll get some smoke flavor . If you can see it , you 'll get more . If you 're not getting ( much ) visible smoke then you need some combination of 1 ) wetter wood 2 ) lower temperature 3 ) larger wood . You get less smoke when the wood just goes up in flames . Chips are particularly prone to do this . Larger chunks smolder better . Things also smolder better when they 're very wet or the fire is n't so hot . But again , you want to figure out your temperature and then get smoke , not make large temp changes just to get smoke . If you 're doing very low and slow ( 225F ) , sometimes that 's not enough heat to get your wood smoking well . Smaller chips or higher temperature are the only things I 've found that really solve this problem .
The <URL> clearly recommends not leaving cooking appliances unattended when no one is home : Based on 2006-2010 annual averages : Unattended cooking was by far the leading contributing factor in home cooking fires . [ ... ] Ranges accounted for the largest share ( 58 % ) of home cooking fire incidents . Ovens accounted for 16 % . At the time this <URL> was written , the Fire Administration said ( they have since updated the page ) : The leading cause of fires in the kitchen is unattended cooking . Stay in the kitchen when you are frying , grilling , or broiling food . If you leave the kitchen for even a short period of time , turn off the stove . If you are simmering , baking , roasting , or boiling food , check it regularly , remain in the home while food is cooking , and use a timer to remind you that you 're cooking . Stay alert ! To prevent cooking fires , you have to be alert . You wo n't be if you are sleepy , have been drinking alcohol , or have taken medicine that makes you drowsy .
There is no single answer to this question . Instead , a number of factors ( not including the weather ) affect the perceived tenderness or moistness of a steak or other cut of meat . Overview There are two major factors that effect the perceived moistness of a steak or other cut of meat : The amount of connective tissue . The more connective tissue the meat has , the tougher and chewier it will be , at least until the collagen that composes the connective tissue is converted to gelatin The temperature to which the cut is cooked . The higher the temperature , up to about 165 F , the more different types of proteins are denatured and coagulated , squeezing out moisture , leading to a dryer , tougher mouth feel . Additionally , some minor factors contribute to or enhance perceived tenderness or moistness : Cutting the meat against the grain enhances the perception of tenderness . Marinating in an acid or enzymatically active marinade may enhance tenderness Mechanically processing , cutting , or pounding the meat ( as in a cube steak ) to disrupt its fibers can enhance tenderness . Connective Tissue The more an animal uses a muscle , the more connective tissue that muscle will contain . For example , the shoulder of the animal is usually worked very hard ( it has to keep the animal standing up ) for pigs and cows , so it has a low of connective tissue . Other muscles are used rarely , such as the tenderloin , and do n't develop very much connective tissue . The connective tissue is composed of a protein called collagen , which is tough and rubbery , and makes cuts high in it seem much tougher than those which are not . However , with certain types of cooking , collagen can be converted to gelatin , and convert from being tough to being unctuous and soft . Temperature As the temperature in the steak rises , more and more proteins tighten and denature , squeezing out moisture , resulting in a drier , tougher mouth feel . Various groups of proteins denature at different temperatures , so the higher the internal temperature , the more moistness will be squeezed out , and the drier and tougher the steak will seem . By the time the cut reaches about 165 F , all of the proteins are denatured , and it is fully well done , and as tough as it will be . According to <URL> : 122 ° F - Myosin protein in mammal meat begins to denature . 130-135 ° F - Target temp for medium rare lamb chops and beef steaks , the temperature at which they are at optimum tenderness , flavor , and juiciness . 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . 140 ° F - Collagens begin to contract and squeeze juice from within muscle fibers into the spaces between the fibers and out to the surface . 140 ° F - Myoglobin denatures rapidly and red or pink juices begin to turn clear or tan and bead up on the surface . 150 ° F - Actin protein begins to denature making meat tougher and drier . 155 ° F - Well done for most meats . Most ( but not all ) bacteria killed in less than 30 seconds but spores can survive to much higher temps . High Connective Tissue Cuts When cuts are high in connective tissue , the same toughening and drying that occurs in low connective cuts happens as the internal temperature rises to about 165 F. However , starting at about 170-180 F , a new process begins to engage : the collagen ( the very protein that made these cuts tougher to start with ) begins to transform in the presense of water into gelatin , a different protein . The gelatin lubricates the meat , and gives it a newly unctuous and moist mouth-feel , despite being very well done . It takes time for gelatin conversion to occur : it is not enough to simply bring the internal temperature to 180 F . It has to stay there for several hours for the conversion to have enough time to take place . This gelatin conversion is what makes slow cooking methods like braising and barbecuing so effective for tough cuts of meat . They are cooked until quite well done ( when they would be extremely tough ) , but then the conversion of the collagen to gelatin makes them much softer , and unctuous , so that they are again perceived as moist and tender . Sadly , it will not work on cuts that were fairly tender to begin with , as there is little collagen to convert to gelatin . Slicing Against the Grain Additionally , while a minor factor , the way the meat is cut into bite sized portions also effects the perception of toughness . Muscles are bundles of cells that are aligned in the same direction , like a bundle of straws . They are very , very strong in the direction that the fibers align ( along the straws ) , but not as strong against that direction ( across the straws ) . If sliced against the direction of the grain of the meat , so that the straws are cut in half , the the impression is that the meat is more tender . For example , in fajitas , the traditional flank steak or skirt steak is cooked to no more than medium rare to medium ( to minimize the toughness
Simple Syrup is sugar that is has been dissolved in water . Heating speeds the process , and also allows the water to " absorb " more sugar . I do n't remember the chemistry of why the sugar does n't crystallize at room temp , but it does n't . It is typically made in a 1:1 mixture . . heat a cup of water to boiling , add a cup of sugar , stir until the sugar is dissolved , remove from heat , allow to cool . It is used in cold drinks like lemonade and iced tea because granulated sugar does not dissolve easily in cold liquids . It requires a lot of mixing , and the saturation point is low , so people who like lots of sugar ca n't get enough to dissolve to get the taste they desire . Note # 1 : this is why Southern-style Sweet Tea is sweetened while the tea is still hot . Note # 2 : The sweetness of 1 tsp of sugar is not equivalent to the sweetness of 1 tsp of simple syrup . You will have to find your particular taste point . Note # 3 : It can be flavored with just about any flavor extract , such as lemon , orange , peppermint , vanilla , almond , and so on . As I understand it , this is typically how flavored iced teas are made .
Sterno is ( roughly ) alcohol mixed with gel . The same type of alcohol ( ethanol mixed with enough methanol to make it poisonous ) is commonly used in marine stoves because it 's considered to be quite safe : it does n't explode and it can be extinguished with water . Alcohol also burns cleanly and quite completely , so there are essentially no methanol molecules in the flame that could land on your marshmallows and harm you .
Sterno is gelled denatured alcohol . It is denatured alcohol ( a combination of methanol and ethanol ) so that you ca n't , safely , drink it , but it is still mostly alcohol , which will dissolve in water and clean up just fine . While I would n't dump a lot of it down the sink , you should have no problem with cleanup . And while Sterno is n't safe to drink , it wo n't be a problem if you touch it in cleaning up . I just double checked the Sterno site and they confirm water cleanup and say , additionally , that it is biodegradable .
For steaks I really prefer cooking butter instead of oils , I find that the flavor fits the meat better .
You need to cover soft vegetables in egg or batter first . Normally the vege 's are steamed first to actually cook , cooled , then egg washed or lightly battered and flash deep fried in hot oil just to set the thin batter Try Indian style spicy pea/chickpea flour batters
Marination , <URL> , is a surface treatment . Meats are simply not that porous ; the only molecule small enough to penetrate more than a millimeter or two beneath the surface is salt , which diffuses at a rate of about 2 cm per 24 hours . So I would choose the route of convenience : do you want the marinade in the bag as you are going through the cooking , perhaps as the basis of the sauce ? In that case , add it and seal . Otherwise , complete the marination and then seal .
You have mentioned in your comments that you do n't rest steak . This is why it leaks the red liquid when you cut it . Any good restaurant will rest your steak , hence them being less leaky . <URL> explains very well why you should rest steak ( and any other meat ) . Essentially , as the meat cools , the shape of its fibers changes , allowing it to retain the liquid . 7-10 minutes is about the right length of time to rest a steak . Heston Blumenthal recommends resting on a wire rack rather than a plate to prevent one side steaming .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
I always go in this order : Garlic/ginger/chili / spring onion whites This is to infuse the cooking oil with these flavours . Cook for short amount of time ~ 30secs . onions/peppers/carrots / harder veg These need a little more cooking that the other bits , so I give them a bit longer . mushrooms/sugar snaps/soft veg These need less cooking , so bit less time . bean sprouts I like these to be a bit crunchy so add them right at then end and basically just warm through . If I 'm using bigger veg like broccoli/cauliflower then I do them separately to the other veg . I use a little of the chili/garlic/ginger and fry that for 30 secs , add the broccoli fry for another minute or so just to brown the florets , then add some water , turn down the heat and put on a lid , to steam the broccoli . Once its done I remove to a separate plate the add back in at the end . It basically depends on how much you like each veg cooked . If you prefer your peppers crunchy , put them in nearer the end .
A metal pan will not crack simply from cold liquid . If you heat it up to a very high temperature and submerge it in cold water , that 's not such a good idea . But deglazing is just a tiny amount of liquid . Now , aluminum is another story - if it 's hot enough and you pour cold water ( or cold anything ) on it , it can warp , even with a relatively small amount of liquid . And for Teflon and other " coated " cookware , you can ruin the coating that way . But heavier steel or cast iron - no way . If you 're really concerned , just keep the deglazing liquid at room temperature . Deglazing is usually done with vinegar and you keep that at room temperature anyway , right ? I deglaze my CI all the time with cider vinegar and have never experienced even the tiniest crack in 10 years . I 'm pretty sure it 's safe . It 's great , actually ; CI deglazes very easily , you just need a small splash of vinegar .
While the above suggestions would get rid of the oil splatter problem , they would also result in overcooked meat with a soggy exterior , as all the water created during frying ( for example , chicken releases a lot of juice ) would remain in the pan and steam the meat instead of frying it . Your best bet is to get something called a splatter screen . I 've seen one at <URL> , and at walmart , and I would assume kitchen supply stores would carry it too . A splatter screen is basically a fine metal mesh lid with a handle that fits over a variety of pans/pots and while it allows the steam to escape it also prevents the oil from splattering everywhere by catching in it the fine mesh . The best $ 10 you 'll ever spend .
It 's usually safe to eat the skins of potatoes . If there is a greenish tint under the skin , you 'll want to peel down to below the greenish bit . If you do n't , it could lead to solanine poisoning . See <URL> and <URL>
I assume you are referring to standard , grocery store , cavendish bananas - They have a ton of water and sugar and have a very delicate texture . This makes them easily disintegrate and get gummy instead of crisp . The key is to deep fry them at a fairly high heat until they are dark and crisp . It also helps to use greener bananas that will hold together better . Butter is not well suited to this because of the necessary oil depth and high heat . Not only would it take a fair bit of butter but the butter would start to burn . Even clarified butter would n't be ideal . Vegetable oil or shortening would be the way to go . Additional notes : To make frying them easier bananas are often coated in something starchy - like a tempura batter . Recipes abound and they are , in my opinion , much better than frying the bananas on their own . <URL> Plantains are more often fried because they are much more starchy than Cavendish bananas . Plaintains actually become sweeter when fried .
I would never leave it unseasoned . Carbon steel rusts . If you just cook with sufficient oil , and let it cool down with the oil still inside , and then clean gently ( preferably without any soap ) , the inner bottom will indeed session itself with time , as tfd mentioned . But the rest of the pan will be exposed to the air and will create a layer of rust . If you do n't use it frequently enough , or if you prepare acidic food in it before it has gathered some seasoning ( and most vegetables are acidic ) , you will get rust on the bottom too , before seasoning has had time to build up on its own . Ingesting rust is not an immediate health risk , but it is better to avoid it . Our bodies were n't designed for it , and you might end up with too much iron in your diet . It is also porous , so the pan would be hard to clean well . And it looks really shabby to have a rusty pan in the kitchen . And if this is your first " normal " pan after years of non stick , you might be amazed at the amount of oil needed to prevent food from sticking . It looks terrifying to our modern " fat is bad " eyes . And you still have to be careful , despite the oil . With time , you will learn to cook the right way , but having it seasoned first certainly helps . There is no law requiring you to season , but to me , the above reasons are enough to always season .
The biggest concern with fish caught in the wild is the presence of parasites . You 'll have to look up which species of parasite are present in the species of fish that you wish to use , and treat it accordingly . Tapeworm is common in salmon , and several other varieties of fish have various parasites capable of infecting a human host . Most sites I 've seen suggest that you need to freeze the fish at -4 degrees Fahrenheit ( -20 Celcius ) or colder for 7 days or -31 Fahrenheit ( -35 Celcius ) for 15 hours to guarantee any parasites are dead . Many home freezers may have difficulty keeping temperatures this low . Also the freezing process , if done in a home freezer , has a good chance of ruining the taste and the texture of the meat . You may want to look into flash freezing methods to avoid this . Supposedly there are certain species of fish that do not have any parasites , or at least no parasites capable of infecting humans . You will want to do your own research on this to be certain . Beyond parasites bacteria are the other biggest concern . Make sure you put the fish into a cooler immediately , and freeze it as soon as you return home . Sources : <URL> <URL>
I have the <URL> and it works well for sweet potato fries . The product spec for them lists " Yams " which are sometimes what sweet potatoes are called in the U.S. ( technically , yes , yams are different but real yams are not often available in the U.S. ) . The <URL> specifically lists sweet potatoes : Makes French fries , sweet potato fries , zucchini sticks and other favorites
end question
start question
How to prepare courgettes/zucchini ?
When they 're still young , I grill them -- trim ends cut into planks about 1/4 " to 3/8 " thick ( ~ 1cm ) toss in olive oil sprinkle with salt grill over direct heat flip when you develop good char marks . pull from the grill once the other side is slightly charred . As they get older , the seed cavity starts developing -- you can cut the sides off , leaving the middle , but it 's just not as sweet .
Shrimp are extremely lean and have very little connective tissue , which means that the longer they cook the harder they get . Fresh shrimp , for example , only need to be fried for about one minute per side ( depending on their size ) . This makes cooking frozen shrimp very difficult : By the time the outside has thawed and is perfectly cooked , the inside will still likely be frozen . If you cook them long enough for the inside to thaw and cook ( e.g. , 30 minutes ) , the outside will likely be extremely hard . I would recommend thawing the shrimp before cooking , for example , by leaving them in the refrigerator overnight . Another quick way to thaw them is to place them in a bowl and run a stream of cold water over them in your sink . Next , thoroughly dry the shrimp , which will help <URL> and promote the <URL> . Only cook the shrimp until they turn slightly pink and begin to curl on one side , then flip . Depending on the size , this should be no more than , say , two minutes per side . Then proceed with the remainder of the recipe . Also take into account if the recipe calls for simmering the shrimp in the cream sauce ; if so , then this will continue to cook the shrimp and you will not need to fry them as long .
The leaves are often referred to as " beet greens " , which might return some more search results . I usually see them treated similar to spinach or swiss chard ; that is , either served raw in a salad , or blanched and/or sauteed , perhaps with some garlic and olive oil .
Yes . You can either use aluminum foil that has been lightly sprayed with some Pam or rubbed with butter OR a piece of parchment paper cut into a larger circle than the pie . It will create an overhang that you can use to pull out the weights or beans . If you try to bake it with the beans on the surface it will cook directly into the dough and your shell will be ruined . I still prick the bottom of the crust because steam and air will still be trapped underneath the pie weights . When you remove the weights to finish the baking of the crust , if it has not been pricked you could still end up with pockets and air bubbles as that part of the crust is still a bit raw .
The easiest way where I live to get rennet is to buy Junket tablets at the grocery store . If they have it it 's near the ice cream toppings . You can buy it online from the company . It 's very cheap and although not 100 % pure rennet it works just fine for the variety of cheeses I have made . The box of tablets comes with reliable recipes for a variety of cheeses and ice cream . Online cheese making suppliers can sell you " higher quality " rennet that is much more expensive . This may make sense for you - especially if you are buying from them anyway for specialized bacteria or mold to make a particular cheese like swiss , etc. . I ca n't recommend one in particular but they are easy to find . You can make your own . I would n't recommend it . Rennet is an enzyme used by calves to digest their mother 's milk . Historically , when a calf was slaughtered the correct stomach ( I believe the first ) would be chopped up and soaked for some time in water . The stomach was then removed and the water with dissolved rennet would be used to make cheese . If you have access to a calf and have a tougher constitution than I you could certainly try this . Nowadays rennet is mostly recombinantly produced . For those opposed to our genetically-modified-bacteria-friends non-recombinant rennet can be found . Vegetarian rennet derived from vegetables or mold with similar properties is also available . Recombinant is , of course , much less expensive .
If it 's from an animal that is " young at heart " ( veal/calf ) , it may be tender enough to cut into thin strips and pan-fry or grill quickly as " steaks . " Do n't overcook , or they will be really tough , and you 'll be heartbroken . But to get to the heart of the matter , if it 's really an adult beef heart , it 's too tough and chewy to cook quickly . Braising is my preferred method and the one closest to my heart . This is one of those things can cook all day and will eventually become incredibly tender -- tasting like a slightly unusual and hearty pot roast . You can also stuff them and then either braise or roast them -- again , " low and slow " heat is the most heart-friendly . If you roast it , also be sure there is enough moisture in the stuffing ( i.e. , leave a " soft spot " in your heart ) , or else it can dry out during a long bake . ( You can also " roast " it in a dutch oven or something . ) When you open up your heart after cooking , a dry stuffing will just leave you with a heavy heart . A final option is to use it as stew meat . It will take longer to cook than most stew meats , so you might want to simmer for a while first before adding vegetables . Then cook until the flavors come together and your heart 's content . Once , when I had leftovers after making a stuffed heart , I was just going eat it , but then I had a change of heart . I chopped up the tender meat and added it to chili . It probably was about 1/3 of the overall meat in the chili , along with some diced chuck chunks and some ground beef . It came out incredibly good : there was a deep earthy flavor that really worked well . I served it to a number of friends without explaining the dish , and they did n't notice anything unusual ; I did n't have the heart to tell them . In fact , a number of people said it was some of the best chili they had tasted , which was really heartwarming to hear . Take heart ! There are lots of ways to cook it . Any slow-cooking method or recipe you might use for a tough cut of beef will probably work -- just follow your heart . ( I am actually serious about all of these methods -- but , okay , truly sorry about the puns . From the bottom of my ... )
I assume you are referring to standard , grocery store , cavendish bananas - They have a ton of water and sugar and have a very delicate texture . This makes them easily disintegrate and get gummy instead of crisp . The key is to deep fry them at a fairly high heat until they are dark and crisp . It also helps to use greener bananas that will hold together better . Butter is not well suited to this because of the necessary oil depth and high heat . Not only would it take a fair bit of butter but the butter would start to burn . Even clarified butter would n't be ideal . Vegetable oil or shortening would be the way to go . Additional notes : To make frying them easier bananas are often coated in something starchy - like a tempura batter . Recipes abound and they are , in my opinion , much better than frying the bananas on their own . <URL> Plantains are more often fried because they are much more starchy than Cavendish bananas . Plaintains actually become sweeter when fried .
Depends on the type of cabbage , but I 've had success with prepping as if I was about to boil , and then freeze on a dry cloth ; Once frozen , transfer to an air tight freezer bag , and use as fast as is practical .
Dredging in lightly salted cornmeal and then frying ( shallow frying is fine , but deep frying is magical ) is an absolute classic in the Southern US , where catfish eating is big . I usually just put the plain filets in the cornmeal without first dipping in egg or milk . I do n't think it 's necessary -- though I 'd go with milk if I were forced to use something . After dredging , I let them sit on a wire rack for a minute or so before frying to set the cornmeal ( which I would do if using egg or milk also ) . Generally , though , most treatments that work for a mild , tender white fish will work . Recipes for flounder or sole ( Sole a la Meuniere for example ) , or ones that look for rockfish or striped bass will work really well . Bear in mind that catfish does have a distinctive flavor , though it 's not really strong . Some people do n't care for it , and they tend to describe it as " muddy " tasting . Personally , I do n't see it . If you like the catfish OK , but find the flavor intrusive in some applications , adding spicyness or acid ( lemon juice , vinegar ) will mute it .
Your polenta was probably sticking because you did n't use enough oil or your barbecue was too cool . Olive oil on a barbecue is a bad idea as it flares up and burns easily , you 're better off with a more standard vegetable oil . The choice of oil is not as important as the quantity in keeping things from sticking , you need to use a lot of it . I use a high temperature silicone to baste the barbecue surface with a lot of oil when I need things not to stick , some use a halved onion dipped in oil to apply it to the grill . Also oil your food . Your barbecue surface could also be too cool . If it 's too cool the surface of the polenta block wo n't form a crust quickly enough and will adhere to the grill . It should be hot enough that you ca n't hold the back of your hand over it for more than 2-3 seconds . Other factors in frying or grilling polenta are the thickness of the polenta , the temperature of the polenta , and the thickness of the mix . You want to be grilling thick slabs of still fridge-temperature polenta that was on the gloopy side when cooked .
That 's all there is to it . It seems you already know this , but just to be sure , be aware that " blackened " refers to the spice and not any burning or charring that is done . Burnt spices taste horrendous .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
Wash the shrimp and remove only the head . Insert a bamboo skewer along the shrimp from head to tail , running along the legs without touching flesh Drop into boiling , salted water for 3-5 minutes ( do not put a lid on ) ; after this period , they 'll change color and rise to the top . If they feel firm , they are cooked . Quickly place them into ice water , which helps them have good color and stops the flesh from shrinking and becoming hard . When shrimp are cold , remove from ice water and drain in a colander . To remove the skewer , use a screwing motion . For nigiri-sushi : Remove shell from around body , but not the tail . Butterfly cut open , cutting from head to tail along the belly with the knife only going halfway in . Use the knife or your fingers to open it up and flatten it carefully , without further breaking the flesh . Remove vein and rinse with lightly salted water . Lay on papertowels to drain . If using for sushi rolls , remove tail and cut in half lengthwise .
I have a " Grill Wok " that I received as a gift that looks like this : It is great for grilling potatoes . Peel and cube to about 1 " pieces . Par boiling or microwaving works equally well for blanching the cubes . Toss in a large bowl with olive oil and melted butter Add seasoning : salt , pepper , chili powder , oregano , etc. ( to taste ) Allow Grill Wok to preheat on the grill , when hot add potatoes . Cook till golden brown ( I believe mine was obtained at Bass Pro Shop , but they are available elsewhere )
Kenji Alt has devoted one of his <URL> columns to carnitas . The key to his method is he cooks the pork in a manner akin to confit , under fat in the oven . This low and slow method makes it tender and flavorful . Then , he broils it before service to crisp up .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
Rinse the salsify first before using , that will help . Use a sharp peeler . Ive found that dull peelers create a lot more sap . as soon as you have peeled it , drop the salsify into acidulated water ( water + lemon juice ) . The acids help prevent the color change that occurs . Also wipe up the area with a damp cloth as you work . This will keep things clean and prevent your hands and everything you touch getting tacky .
Let the butcher do it This is roughly the bone structure of a mammal tail : As you can see , it has very many small bones , with of course all the connective tissue . Unless you have solid knife skill , a very sharp boning knife ( with the needle-like blade ) , a protective chain mail glove , and lots of patience , I would say something like this is better left for a professional butcher . Especially if you have not done much boning , this could easily end up in an injury . For reference Boning knives : Chainmain butcher glove :
It 's actually hard to hold when it 's almost all the way cooked - it 'll start getting gluey if you let it cool off , but could start scorching on the bottom if it 's not stirred , and get too runny if you keep adding stock . Mario Batali said that risotto is n't finicky in the middle - so you can cook it part way , cool it down ( I think he said he spread it on sheet pans to cool quickly ) , then you can add hot stock and cook it from that point , so you 've already got a 10 minute head start . I 've also been to a restaurant where it was only served on the hour and half-hour .
I find that brushes and even paper towels are too rough on mushrooms . I use cold running water and gentle rubbing by hand .
end question
start question
In what kinds of dishes is asafoetida traditionally used ?
It is used extensively in Indian cooking . I have one book , <URL> that calls for it in virtually every recipe , and each time reminds you to cut the amount down by 3/4 's if you ca n't find Yellow Cobra brand . It does indeed have a flavor someone reminiscent of aged garlic . It is thought to have medicinal value as well ( see the wikipedia article for details ) .
Not using standard practice might violate safety standards in a professional context . Technically , the important factor is whether the residues are made of something perfectly water soluble ( sugar , salt , fat-free watery or alcoholic solutions , insoluble but not sticky solid particles ... ) or of something that is not water soluble and that will adhere to the dishes ( about anything containing oils/fats ) . If you could n't properly get it off your hands without soap , you wo n't get it off the dishes without soap .
They all seem to use different cheeses depending on the brand . The most consistent cheese is definitely mozzarella , which makes sense as it 's the default cheese on most pizzas . Second to that is some sort of hard grating cheese like Parmesan or Asiago ... which also makes sense as it 's a traditional pizza condiment . Other Italian cheeses also seem popular like fontina and provolone But non-Italian cheeses like cheddar certainly show up . Below are some examples . I do n't recommend any of these products , they just came up in web searches and specifically describe which four cheeses they use . Amy 's uses : Fontina , provolone , Parmesan , mozzarella : <URL> Frontera uses : Mozzarella , white cheddar , smoked provolone , asiago . <URL> California Pizza Kitchen uses : Mozzarella ( apparently more than one kind ) , fontina , gouda <URL> Lean Cuisine uses : low fat mozzarella , Parmesan , asiago , romano <URL>
There 's a reason so many recipes say " salt to taste " : there 's no single answer . Most of the time , we use close to 0.5 % salt by weight ( so 1kg food has 5g or 1 teaspoon of salt ) , but " close to " leaves plenty of wiggle room about what exactly is best . Different people have different tastes . What 's perfectly salted for one person may be oversalted or undersalted for another . Different dishes need different ratios too . Some things are supposed to taste a bit salty , while some just need a hint to amplify other flavors . Some ingredients need more salt to balance them than others . Sure , you can get approximate starting points , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ( with tons of variation - that 's a couple random recipes ) . So very roughly , 1kg of food often comes with 5 grams of salt ( 1 teaspoon ) with exceptions ranging up to 10 grams ( 2 teaspoons ) . But your best bet is always going to be to find a good recipe for the specific dish you 're making , and possibly adjust it if you know your preferences lean one way or another . Failing that , when cooking something improvised or new , or using one of the many recipes that just says " salt to taste " , letting you do what suits you , trust the instincts that you 've developed for your own tastes . If you 're cooking for others , with possibly varying tastes , it gets trickier . For things where salt can be added after the fact , you can use less salt and let everyone individually salt to taste . For things you ca n't mix after cooking , you pretty much have to compromise somewhere in the middle and hope it works for everyone . Beyond that , if you ca n't decide what the right amount of salt is , do n't worry about it . There 's surely a range that works for you , so if two different amounts both taste good , there you are . And if you find yourself disagreeing with someone about what amount of salt results in the best flavor , stop . You probably just have different tastes from the person you 're arguing with .
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
There are several options for frostings that are light and fluffy , and not based on just powdered ( confectioner 's ) sugar and shortening , that are n't just whipped cream . Other answers have already mentioned the last two , but I wanted to add whipped ganache . <URL> -- my personal favorite . Of course , this is always and only chocolate ( I do n't call white chocolate chocolate ... ) <URL> ; the link is for a vanilla recipe but many variants are possible . <URL> is tall and fluffy and has no fat at all . This is also known as merengue frosting .
In regard to the issues you 've had with the Toffutti Sour Supreme ... wait until you take it off the heat and stir it in right before serving . If it still breaks , then try stirring arrowroot powder , tapioca starch ( avail . in Asian markets ) , or potato starch ( about a tablespoon per cup of sour supreme ) into it before adding to the stroganoff . These starches ( amylopectin ) have a lower gellation point than grain-based starches ( flour , corn , rice ) which are higher in amylose and require heating to a higher temperature for the starch granules to swell and pop , releasing their starch . OR Try <URL> for kosher beef stroganoff where they 're using coconut milk for the kosher cream sauce and say that the coconut flavor does n't come through in the finished dish .
Sumac is commonly used a tart flavoring element in the eastern Mediterranen region . Historians believe that it was the common sour element in cooking for that area prior to domestication of lemons . It is a characteristic seasoning element in Fatoush , a Syrian bread salad . It 's not usually available in the mainstream spice section of most grocery stores . The best place to locate it is in mid-eastern markets , delis , upscale stores such as Dean &amp; Deluca or online through P <URL> or the <URL> .
When I go to the Korean supermarkets in LA , I usually see half an aisle just dedicated to 고추가루 in all kinds of forms ( mild to spicy , fine to coarse grind ) and colors . I do n't know that there 's any specific pepper than it is all about how sweet and mildly spicy 고추가루 is supposed to be . You could start from there to make your own by sun drying and crushing whatever peppers are available to you . If you are looking for a substitute that you can buy at a western store , try crushed red pepper flakes ( the kind you see in the shakers at pizza places ) . You 're going to be adjusting for taste/spiciness anyway , so not much of a dealbreaker .
I found ojingeo bokkeum ( 오징어볶음 ) , which is squid stir-fried in a chilli sauce , to be pretty intense , especially as a jeongol ( 전골 ) or stew , where it 's both hot ( as in spicy ) and hot ( as in temperature ) . The sweetness of the stew does nothing to lessen the intensity of the dish . Also ridiculously spicy is buldak ( 불닭 ) , which is again a stir-fry of chicken in a chilli sauce , with tteok ( 떡 ) or rice cake .
Baking soda also raises the PH of the product resulting in better browning . Soda can be left out . Many recipes - especially for chewier cookies - do n't call for any leavening besides the eggs . <URL> Cookie recipes often call for the dough to be chilled so that it spreads less in the oven before it sets . This creates a taller , less crispy cookie . Cookie recipes do n't typically have very much water in them for the soda to dissolve into . Much of the water is tied up in the butter and wo n't be available until the dough melts in the oven .
Glucose is very expensive , unlike caster sugar ( sucrose , also commonly called " table sugar " ) which does the job , and is much easier to work with . Glucose in the modern kitchen is only really used in meringues .
Peanut butter cookies do n't spread as they cook , so you have to flatten them before hand . This ensures that the middle will cook through before the outside burns . As for the pattern created , it actually creates slightly more surface area , so you 'll get more browning at the extra edges that you create . Think of it like a meringue , or the top of a shepherd 's pie -- if it 's too smooth , you wo n't get the little bits of browned crispy bits that you 'd get if you rough up the surface .
This product is new to me , but it looks interesting . The flavour of <URL> is described in Wikipedia : Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty , cheesy , or creamy , which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes . It is often used by vegans in place of parmesan cheese . Nutritional yeast is a so called <URL> . A complete protein ( or whole protein ) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals . This also explains why it is popular among vegans , that needs to replace the amino acids in meat with alternative food sources .
Two properties of salt that oregano does n't have : water solubility : you drop salt in water , you put it on chicken , you put it in tomato sauce . Most or all of it ends up dissolving , making it easier to mix . osmosis : related to above . Sprinkle some salt on raw meat . Come back in 5 minutes and you 'll see beads of liquid on the meat , almost like it was sweating . That 's a combination of salt dissolving into the liquid on the surface of the meat , and osmosis pulling less salty water out of the cells of the meat to balance the salty water on the surface . In 10 minutes , some of that liquid will have disappeared . Part of this might be due to evaporation , but part of this is due to the liquid pulling salt into the cells , which changes the equilibrium and allows for the cells to draw liquid back in ( principle behind brining meats ) . Salt has a natural way of penetrating organic matter that oregano and many other seasonings do n't . There are other mechanisms at play too -- salty foods can make you salivate , which may make something feel " juicier " in your mouth . I 'd highly recommend <URL> as a start .
Plastic dishes in general will pick up stains , non-plastic dishes ( enamelware , glass , or glazed ceramic ) in my experience wo n't . For stain resistance combined with durability , as you 've identified , the best option is likely enamelware , you might try looking for attractive patterns , while the old-fashioned camp cookware that we have in our cupboard is n't very attractive , I 'm finding some designs that look much better online , certainly as good or better than plastic dishes . If you ca n't find enamelware that 's attractive enough for your taste , tempered glass dishes , as Wayfaring Stranger suggests , are certainly a fairly durable option , another would be heavy plain white porcelain dishes , which I 've found to be significantly more durable than typical stoneware dishes . They 'll still shatter if dropped on concrete , but they 're less likely to chip in normal everyday use .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
The milk sugars will add a sweetness to the dish . Also , after the fish comes out , the milk can be reduced/thickened to make a bechemel sauce .
Fondant is nearly solid -- it 's rolled out , and placed onto the cake ( with a buttercream underneath as an adhesive ) . The advantage is that it goes on really quickly and smoothly over large items . It can also be cut into shapes with rather clean edges ( modeling chocolate gives sharper edges , but it 's not flexible enough to cover a round cake ) . You often see it on professional non-traditional cakes ( more novelties , when they need a solid color or something that 's strangely shaped . Fondant can also be used to give a solid background can then be piped into ( with buttercream icing , generally ) or painted . As it 's nearly solid , it can also be worked like you would clay to make decorations . Royal icing dries hard as it has no fat in it . It 's generally only used on cakes as a drizzle where you 're not attempting to cover the entire cake . You 'll often see it used on bundt cakes , but you more frequently see it used for cookies when you 're doing a flood-fill . Buttercream icings ( commonly called ' frosting ' in the US ) is likely the most standard for non-professional stacked cakes . It 's spread on , so it takes a little more work to get a clean smooth surface . ( the trick is to wait 'til the surface has hardened , put down some waxed paper , then smooth out all of the spatula marks ... you need to wait 'til the waxed paper does n't stick , but not so long that it has n't set up completely ) . You can also use buttercream in pastry bags to create flowers , ropes , basketweave and other decorations . ... And then there 's other frostings/icings , too , but they 're not as general purpose . They generally go with specific types of cakes -- caramel and other cooked frostings ( eg , used in ' German Chocolate Cake ' ) , cream cheese frosting ( for carrot and other spice cakes ) , whipped cream ( used in black forest cake &amp; strawberry shortcake )
It is used extensively in Indian cooking . I have one book , <URL> that calls for it in virtually every recipe , and each time reminds you to cut the amount down by 3/4 's if you ca n't find Yellow Cobra brand . It does indeed have a flavor someone reminiscent of aged garlic . It is thought to have medicinal value as well ( see the wikipedia article for details ) .
end question
start question
How does commercial whole grain bread stay fresh for so long ?
Industrial breads use ' dough conditioners ' that soften the dough and make working with it easier . You can buy such mixes online , <URL> for instance , and I 've seen them for sale in natural food stores and the like . Other things that might work are adding a starch or a fat , or heat treating some of your flour in the microwave ( a minute for a cup , do n't do this to all the flour , it destroys some of the gluten ) . Guar gum or xanthan gum will help to keep things moist as well . I 've never used these techniques , so some experimentation might be necessary . Store bread in plastic bags as soon as it cools , and do n't slice right away .
Without knowing the constituent ingredients of the sausage it is difficult to give exact advice . There are generally two types of chorizo fresh ( or cooking chorizo ) and cured chorizo . Fresh or cooking chorizo is made with pork , red wine , smoked paprika and salt ( along with some other spices depending on the particular recipe ) . The alcohol and salt combine as a mild preservative and therefore the sausage will last a little longer than a normal fresh sausage but only a few weeks realistically . As the name and the lack of a long curing process suggests it needs cooking before it can be eaten . Cured chorizo is made using similar ingredients but uses more salt and sometimes some sodium nitrate and nitrite . The additional chemicals create a much stronger preservative drawing out the moisture and curing the meat so that it can be safely eaten raw when finished . Cured chorizo develops a darker colour and loses around 30 % of it 's weight as it hangs whereas the fresh chorizo is likely to go bad if left to hang but this is only general advice and not definitive . As for hanging locations , sausages normally hang best in cool environments , 15 degrees C max , with a humidity of 60-70 % . Hope this helps .
Its going to depend on the type of packaging and also the freezer . Lightly wrapped in plastic wrap ( or worse , paper ) will freezer burn fairly quickly . Vacuum-sealed will last much longer . A self-defrost freezer with wide temperature swings will burn quicker . A manual defrost chest freezer much slower . Worst case is probably around a month or less ( not really sealed , freezer with wide temperature swings ) , best case ( vacuum sealed in stable temperature chest freezer ) over a year .
Debbie 's right about the gluten - overmixing is a reliable way to get tough pancakes . I 'm not sure what the best solution is within your process . By far the easiest thing would be simply to use wholegrain wheat flour , letting someone else do the grinding for you . Failing that , I think you want to grind the grains up dry , and then it really wo n't take much mixing at all to eliminate clumps . That 's going to require something other than a blender , though .
Use a boiled cornstarch wash for an in oven glue Egg wash is a great glue , but generally lets go again when heated in the oven . Best used after baking not before
Well you 're kinda right about it lasting a long time due to the sugar content . That will help the preserving process to the extreme . However , to be pratical you should be looking at how long the butter fat will survive in the fridge before it starts to take on funky flavours and looses it 's moisture . You 'll be fine in an air tight tub for a month or so but then flavour will suffer . If you freeze it ( it can be done but the quality will really suffer later ) you can get away with 4-6 months before freezer burn kills it . Honestly , I 'd just do smaller batches and enjoy the higher quality product . For what you save on time doing the larger batch , you 'll give up on taste and quality later .
Bisquick-originated pancake and waffle batter lasts a day , two at the most . Data : in college , I made pancakes or waffles every day for a year and a half , making the batter on day 1 and then cooking it on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . Once in that time I got sick on Day 3 . Based on that experience , more than 24 hours is getting sketchy , though 48 seems to work most of the time .
For long term storage of TVP once it has been cooked , I prefer to bake it into crumbles so that the moisture is reduced ( and it adds to the toothsomeness of it ) before storage . To bake it into crumbles , just lay out in small meatball-style heaps on parchment and bake until dried through . This is beneficial in both freezer ( yes , it freezes very well and reheats in about the same time as when refrigerated ) and refrigerator storage as the moisture will burn in the freezer and turn the TVP texture grainy , and in the fridge it can soak up some stray smells easily . When wet , I find that storing it for between 3-5 days does n't make it too soggy and limp when reheating , for longer than that I find it preferable to freeze not for the sake of contamination but because it preserves the texture better and the flavor and takes up less fridge space .
From <URL> published by the United States Department of Agriculture : Is Frozen Food Safe ? Food stored constantly at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) will always be safe . Only the quality suffers with lengthy freezer storage . Freezing keeps food safe by slowing the movement of molecules , causing microbes to enter a dormant stage . Freezing preserves food for extended periods because it prevents the growth of microorganisms that cause both food spoilage and foodborne illness . Does Freezing Destroy Bacteria &amp; Parasites ? Freezing to 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) inactivates any microbes -- bacteria , yeasts and molds -- present in food . Once thawed , however , these microbes can again become active , multiplying under the right conditions to levels that can lead to foodborne illness . Since they will then grow at about the same rate as microorganisms on fresh food , you must handle thawed items as you would any perishable food . Trichina and other parasites can be destroyed by sub-zero freezing temperatures . However , very strict government-supervised conditions must be met . Home freezing can not be relied upon to destroy trichina . Thorough cooking , however , will destroy all parasites . Freshness &amp; Quality Freshness and quality at the time of freezing affect the condition of frozen foods . If frozen at peak quality , thawed foods emerge tasting better than foods frozen near the end of their useful life . So freeze items you wo n't use quickly sooner rather than later . Store all foods at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) or lower to retain vitamin content , color ,
The tangzhong is composed mainly of gelated starches . According to Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " During the baking of bread and cakes , the starch granules absorb water , swell , and set to form the rigid bulk of the walls that surround the bubbles of carbon dioxide . At the same time their swollen rigidity stops the expansion of the bubbles and so forces the water vapor inside to pop the bubbles and escape , turning the foam of separate bubbles into a continuous spongy network of connected holes . If this did n't happen , then at the end of baking the cool - ing water vapor would contract and cause the bread or cake to collapse . In the Tangzhong , the starches are already swollen before mixing begins . This means that they do not need to compete with the proteins to absorb water as the completed dough warms up in the oven . As you mix the ingredients the plump starches perforate the gluten-water sheets . As McGee mentioned , these starch granules ' rigidity accounts for the spongy , close structure of the tangzhong crumb , dough with less perforated gluten mesh forms larger bubbles and a more open crumb . The gluten in the flour used in the tangzhong is denatured by the process before it can form into an extensive network . However , since the tangzhong accounts for only a small portion of the total flour used , there is plenty of gluten left to maintain structure during rise and oven spring until the starch structure sets . Other resources : <URL>
As with all can goods , as long as the can has no physical defects ( meaning swollen or dented , ectera ) , the contents should still be good . The date on the outside is mainly a best by date , after which a company will no longer vouch for the contents contained therein .
Frozen spinach has been boiled/blanched . You can do this if you really want it to be as much like frozen spinach as possible , but really , you can just cook it with the water left on the leaves from washing - effectively a bit more like steaming . There 's no need to freeze it . This will result in something with fresher flavor and a bit more substantial texture than frozen spinach ( not as eager to disintegrate ) . And you do n't have to worry about moisture much - a lot of the water will cook off - but you can certainly drain it additionally if it 's too much for you . If you really want it exactly like frozen spinach , you could boil it , and maybe even freeze it to help mess up the texture , but I 'm guessing you 'd prefer cooked fresh spinach anyway . In this case , you 'd have to squeeze and drain it just like with frozen spinach to get the water out . ( If it 's unclear how to do this , see <URL> . ) Based on nutrition facts for <URL> and <URL> , one 10 ounce package is approximately the amount you 'll get from cooking a 340g ( 12 ounce ) bunch of spinach - that weight is probably after removing the stems you 're not actually going to cook , though . This fits with my experience cooking down spinach . Most things you 'll use it in are really forgiving , so probably best to err on the larger side with your bunch of spinach !
I do n't think roasting spices " improves " them or rejuvenates stale spices but it certainly does change the flavor profile in ways that may be desirable in some cases , for some spices , less so for other spices in other cases . This is common sense to me and also what I got out of the article . I think the heading of the article is too absolute for the content . Whether or not dry-roasting is " better " depends on which spices and what you are doing with them - how long they will be in the recipe , what else is going in , etc , and what flavor profile you are looking for . I think the article goes into a lot of detail about this and has some good references ( it looks like an interesting blog , thanks for sharing . ) For example , fresh , dried coriander seeds do n't taste the same as toasted coriander , and fresh , untoasted , whole cumin does n't taste like toasted/dry-roasted cumin . If you add it raw vs dry-roasted , in general you are going to impart a slightly different flavor profile to the dish . Some recipes are complex and/or delicate enough that this matters , and as the article notes , this will be specified in recipes from trusted sources . If you are making an uncooked chutney that you want to season with coriander seeds or fenugreek seeds , you need to toast them before grinding them if you want them to taste cooked . Or if you are seasoning your raita or lassi with cumin , it will probably taste better ( or more like what would be expected ) if you toast it . But " better " really just depends on what you are looking for . The author of the linked article talks about what flavors she wants to impart to her squash soup , and that is great . If it 's her recipe and her tastes , she should make it how she will enjoy it . But if you are trying to replicate a traditional recipe , you may want to follow the traditional methods for that dish at least the first time you do it , which may or may not use the spice how you are used to using it , it 's even possible that the traditional way wo n't taste as good to you as using them how you 're used to . So again , that 's fine , adapt the recipe , with the understanding that it may be a bit less traditional . That 's how we end up with fusion cuisines , like Indian-Chinese , or British-Indian or American-Italian , adapting traditional methods to new ingredients or to differing tastes and preferences . For the most part , in my Indian cooking , I rarely toast spices before adding them in unless I 'm making something where it is n't going to be cooked further . I had n't heard or been told that you " always " should roast all spices before grinding them . In fact , most of the Indian cooks I 've learned from use pre-ground spices for convenience , and I sometimes get weird looks from people in my generation when I make things less convenient and start from fresh , whole spices instead of spice blends . My point here is that there is sometimes a difference between what is ideal for a dish vs what is ideal for daily cooking . Both the daily " easy " method and the for-special-occasions-only multi-step preparation can be equally traditional for what is ostensibly the same dish .
I second the recommendation for Lukas Volger 's <URL> . I 've been working my way through it and have made several of the recipes so far , all of which have been good . However , I would say that not all of the recipes in the book work well for the grill . I 've been doing everything vegan from the Volger book with mixed results . Many of the recipes use eggs , but you can do them with just breadcrumbs and water as the binder . They come out pretty delicate that way and are better in a skillet and then baked , as Volger recommends . His tofu and chard burgers use some tofu that has been browned then pureed as binder . This works ok , but the burgers came out quite delicate ( but still delicious ) . Silken tofu pureed in the food processor gets a thick , creamy texture that could also be used as a binder . Eggs are by far the most common binder as they may be the best edible binder there is , since they are basically liquid protein , but obviously not vegan . For delicate burgers , I use this <URL> on the grill , which works great . You can find something similar at most kitchen stores . Another binder option is steamed rice , prepared like you would for sushi . It gets sticky and makes a great binder , though they 'll still be a bit delicate . I 've been making the beet , brown rice and black bean burger recipe from Volger 's book . I add bbq sauce and a paste of pureed rehydrated prunes , similar to the veggie burger at Hillstone/Houston 's restaurant and they come out really great . They work fine right on the grill , though refrigerating them overnight makes them a little sturdier . Another option is adding vital wheat gluten and water , aka raw seitan dough . This is what is done in the <URL> black bean burger recipe . I tried these straight on the grill also and they stayed together perfectly , as well as any commercial veggie burger . However , they were a little bland and could use some more seasoning . I have n't tried any of these in burgers , but some common binders in vegan baking are peanut butter , apple sauce and <URL> . I bet peanut butter would work well in a burger with flavors that work with peanut , like Thai flavors or chipotle . Falafel-style burgers also do n't need any binders , they stick together pretty well and can be grilled , though you may want to use a grill grid or something similar . Lastly , you can put a cast iron skillet or pizza stone on the grill - it 's common now for grilled pizza and will work for delicate burgers .
If you whisk very cold cream in a very cold bowl , and keep it very cold , it should hold for about 3-4 hours . Longer than that and it can start to separate .
Marsala is a <URL> , that is , a wine to which extra alcohol has been added . Therefore , you can store Marsala outside of the fridge , in a cool place ( 15-20 ° C ) , away from direct light . In these conditions a bottle can sit there for several weeks/months with no obvious degradation , as you would expect for fortified wines . Generally it is suggested to drink Marsala or similar wines , such as Porto or Banyuls , in the following 4/5 months , but I had bottles opened for a year or so and they were still good , although the flavour faded a bit . As for Marsala all ' uovo , it has pasteurized egg yolks in it , and even home-made recipes call for a pasteurization step . In general I would store home-made one in the fridge to be on the safe side , but do not serve it too cold . Commercial ones may also have preservatives ( aside from the added alcohol of Marsala ) in them , and are safe to leave in a cool place for several weeks .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
What to do A dough should be generally risen by size anyway , not by time . But it is also very forgiving , so it will probably still give you decent edible bread if you do it by time . The best way is to wait until it has doubled , no matter what the clock shows . But you insist on going by the clock , do n't change the time , wait the 30 minutes . It may be underproofed ( with such a short time given by the recipe , there is virtually no chance of overproofing it ) , but the same would have happened if you were using the original amounts and going by the clock . Dough proofing and time The rising time for dough at room temperature is not affected by recipe scaling , the time it takes a specific dough to double will be the same regardless of the size of your batch . If the temperature in your proofing container is significantly different from the dough temperature , you will see some effect on rising times with different batch sizes and dough shapes , as the center of the dough will need some time to get to the same temperature as the proofing container , and warmer dough rises quicker than cold dough . This is unlikely to have a measurable effect at dough amounts used by home bakers , especially considering that the possible proofing temperature window is rather narrow .
<URL> The link states it can be kept uncut for 2-3 weeks in the fridge , while cut pieces can last up to 5 days . I think since it 's a root it should hold up much like a carrot or turnip or other like fleshed vegetable .
A quick search seems to suggest it 's a liquid emulsifier . It 's not the most natural of products : a couple of E-numbers and propylenes in there . <URL> Click across to Cake Gel Improvers .
end question
start question
How does adding baking soda to soaking beans/lentils reduce the gas they make you have ?
The actual action of soaking is what does most of the work . Most legumes have complex oligosaccharides , a type of complex sugar . Digestion of this complex sugar is what causes flatulence . By soaking your beans will help remove some of this excess sugar . Be sure you discard the soaking water . Though it is often said that adding baking soda helps I 've yet to see any verifiable evidence that it would help . Also , do n't forget that baking soda is n't tasteless , it could easily add a salty or soapy flavor to your once pristine beans .
In Indian cooking we usually add Ghee ( Clarified butter ) to reduce the heat of a chili pepper . Most Indian dishes , we would add a good heaping spoon of ghee before feeding little ones . This helps temper the heat but keeps the flavors alive so that the children get used to them and can gradually learn to eat hotter foods .
The real issue , I think , is that you want to add the egg whites immediately before service , as they will begin deflating once they are whipped and mixed in . So instead of holding the mix a certain period of time , instead you hold the mix until prior to service , and then fold in the whites , which should be freshly whipped .
Using a cut of meat without too much connective tissue will definitely help . Talk to your butcher about good options . Stew meat is n't the best choice ; it contains a lot of connective tissue which breaks down during the long , slow stewing process . Grilling is too hot and quick to break down that tissue . If you do grill stew meat , lower temperature and longer cooking time may help some , but in that case you 'll probably want to do the veggies separately . A good marinade will help . You can add some meat tenderizer , or make fresh pineapple juice one of the marinade ingredients . Pineapple contains an enzyme that 'll break down some of the connective tissue , but it has to be fresh -- canned juice will have been heated , destroying the enzyme .
What I would suggest is rather than adding a syrup , to take some of your cooked beans , cook them a bit more , then liquify them in a blender . This should give you a thick sauce that tastes like the beans , therefore compliments them perfectly . You can then thicken them very slightly if the consistency is still too runny , be sparing with the flour though . In fact , you could probably make something satisfactory by simply using less thickener . If you have a pasty , sticky sauce it 's a classic symptom of too much thickener . Try making a roux with some butter and flour , cook it awhile for a dark roux which gives deeper color and more flavor . You can then add the roux in small amounts to your cooking liquid until you get the right consistency . If you are pressed for time and have some available a couple big spoons of refried beans may just do the trick too .
You want to use baking soda . Baking powder is used as a leavening agent and does this by combining an acid and a base , so it would not make your chicken more alkaline . Baking soda , on the other hand is just sodium bicarbonate and will make your chicken more alkaline . However , baking soda , especially if used in excessive amounts , will give your chicken a bad taste . Baking soda tastes bitter , and cooking it for too long at high heat exacerbates that . From reading online , it seems that adding baking soda will indeed make your chicken look much browner ( the same way that pretzels are dipped in lye to produce their brown colour ) , but it would affect the texture/taste of your chicken . If you want to add more flavour , I would think that properly browning the chicken ( using high heat , having patience ) would be more effective than adding baking soda , which might give the appearance , but not the taste .
Beef bones can be used multiple times , but less flavor and gelatin will be extracted from each additional use . Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " describes this . Because a standard kitchen extraction of eight hours releases only about 20 % of the gelatin in beef bones , the bones may be extracted for a second time , for a total of up to 24 hours . The resulting liquid can then be used to start the next fresh extraction of meat and bones . I would imagine chicken bones would be similar , although , since they are smaller , the first batch may be more effective than 20 % .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
It 's always a good idea to wash and " pick over " a bag of dried beans before soaking them . You never know what sort of grit or weirdness you might find . It 's a lot more difficult to find the stuff-that-isn ' t-beans once it 's all been soaking together for a long time .
The simple answer is : You reduce a cream sauce the same way you reduce any other sauce , by simmering it until a certain amount of liquid is gone , just like the instructions said . You have to be careful about temperature though , because milk ( or cream ) can burn at high temperatures , and then your sauce is ruined . You should keep it to a low or at most medium simmer . Cream sauces normally tend to thicken extremely fast , so the long cooking time is almost certainly due to watering it down . I do n't think the water was necessary at all ; the chicken broth was probably for flavouring , and although " broth " is a somewhat nebulous term , one would normally expect a broth to contain at least some amount of gelatin , which will cause the sauce to thicken substantially when it cools if you reduce it a lot . Water does n't , so you 've added no flavour and thinned out the sauce . Basically , you ( or your wife ) added water for no other purpose than to try to evaporate it later . Water generally does n't go in a cream sauce . If you do n't have chicken broth or ca n't use it , I would either substitute more wine or just leave it out completely . Usually the only time you substitute water for broth is if it 's actually the base of your sauce .
You do n't need a brand for brewed chocolate . You just take cocoa powder ( which is ground cocoa beans minus most of their fat ) and put it into boiling water . You do n't even need to strain . But I prefer to make mine with milk ( btw , I sometimes brew coffee in milk too ) . Solid candy from coffee is something else . What you call " coffee butter " is , in fact , coffee oil at room temperature . I ca n't find information about the breakdown of the coffee beans , but I am not sure if they have the starch content of cocoa beans ( which helps hold a chocolate bar together ) . Add to this the potential for a heart attack inducing amount of caffeine per bar of caffeeolate and you see why this is n't commonplace . I guess that the industry today would find ways around these problems . You can hydrogenize the oil ( although I do n't think it would attain the smooth texture of tempered chocolate , chocolate butter has some very special crystallization properties which allow a chocolate bar to have a silky but hard texture . It will be just grainy ) and you can decaffeinate the whole thing , and then mix it with some starch to thicken it , and as much sugar as there is in milk chocolate to counter the higher bitterness of coffee . But this will be as distant from real rich-flavoured coffee as 39 cent discounter chocolate bars are from real chocolate . There wo n't be an equivalent of premium dark chocolate ( which is the one that tastes of cocoa beans instead of sugar ) . If you love coffee so much that you want to try a coffeeolate bar , you are better off making coffee flavoured chocolate . If you want the least taste mix , start with a white chocolate bar . The easiest way would be to melt it and mix in a very small amount of cream with lots of instant coffee solved into it , but the taste will be bound by the instant coffee quality . The other way would be to brew the coffee powder in cream , very concentrated ( more than an espresso ) and add it to the melted chocolate . You 'll have to work at chocolate candy making temperatures ( 30 ° C to 32 ° C ) , if you overheat , you 'll have to retemper the chocolate .
Some people think adding olive oil to pasta water will keep the pasta from sticking , but in reality it does absolutely nothing . Adding a tablespoon of oil to pasta water wo n't affect the outcome in the slightest , doing that is a waste of a good ingredient . Adding olive oil to pasta after it has been drained on the other hand will keep the pasta from sticking . It will also make it oily , which may not be what you want .
Baking turns bicarbonate of soda into a weak form of lye - sodium carbonate , as you said . It basically makes it a stronger alkali . The actual baking process is safe , but the resulting lye is an irritant and you should avoid getting in on your skin , and definitely avoid it getting it in your eyes . The difference in texture and colour is noticeable after baking . The texture will be finer , and it will be whiter .
My guess - and this is just a ( somewhat educated ) guess - is that it 's just to promote more even cooking . Since you 're talking about a layered dish , some parts are definitely going to cook faster than others . If the entire dish starts from room temperature , as opposed to fridge temperature , then that means less time is required to cook it through . Less time and less heat required to cook means that all of the layers will be more likely to end up at similar internal temperatures - as opposed to having burned bread , liquefied cheese , or rubbery eggs ( I 'm not sure offhand which cooks the fastest ) . Even if it 's not an issue with the thermal capacities of your individual ingredients , you 're also layering these each several times over , creating a very dense product , so there would still be a significant risk of the middle layers being undercooked , or the outer layers being overcooked . You might be able to bake it straight out of the fridge ; however , you would definitely have to increase the cooking time to account for the temperature difference , and there are a lot of variables that come into play which would affect how evenly it cooks : the intensity and location of your oven 's heat source ( s ) , the density of the casserole , the kind of baking dish you use - I probably would n't chance it , at least not when preparing this for other people . You tend to see the same recommendation for anything particularly dense , such as a roast , or anything layered , such as a lasagna , and generally , you do want to follow those recommendations for the same reason . They cook rather poorly if you cook them from cold or frozen , leaving you with a charred surface and an only-mostly-cooked interior . It can still happen even if you start off at room temperature , but it 's less likely and the effect tends to be less pronounced .
Mostly , it 's just more efficient from a time perspective . You can do all the stuff that a restaurant kitchen does at home on a smaller scale , but it may seem like a lot of work for just a small portion . For example , the prep time to make homemade broth , then put together ingredients and cook a homemade soup for 4 servings might take you most of an afternoon . Maybe by adding an extra hour for processing ingredients , you could easily make 100 servings of that same soup . The difference between making 1 loaf of bread and 20 loaves of bread is minor , assuming you have equipment to handle the larger quantities . You 'll spend a few more minutes dividing and shaping , but otherwise most of the time is just waiting for the dough to rise and then bake . So it 's really about efficiency . If a recipe says " stir for 20 minutes while simmering , " you 'll probably have to do that for roughly 20 minutes whether you 're making a cup or 3 gallons . And because all that prep work is tedious for just a few servings , many home cooks wo n't bother -- they 'll substitute store-bought broth or bullion , they 'll buy pre-mixed bread dough , etc. . Those " shortcuts " are often one main difference that can make your home cooking not as good . Otherwise , there really are n't specific advantages for most dishes . In some cases , you may need to adapt techniques or recipes to handle larger vs. smaller quantities . But flavors can be effectively developed in most dishes whether you 're making one portion or a hundred .
Beans freeze marvelously . I put mine in freezer bags and lay them flat so they freeze quickly and are easier to thaw . They are very sturdy little nuggets of joy and hold up well to canning or freezing without getting mushy . Different beans behave differently . Pintos soften quickly and do n't have much of a skin . Black beans keep their shape and skin a lot longer . Kidney beans are in the middle - if you boil them too long they will mash but they are a lot sturdier than pintos .
When I made scones for the first time , I also found the taste a bit unusual . The recipe I used specified a total of 11 g baking powder and baking soda per 250 g flour , and also 5 g salt . I used less salt , but the taste is definitely unusal for people accustomed to continental Kleingebäck . I can see two reasons for this . First , the dough for scones is quite unusual , something between cookie and pastry . It is a lot tougher than the usual soda-leavened dough . So I guess that it needs additional leavening power in order to create a light texture , unlike the semiliquid batters which raise without a problem . Plus , it gets no help from egg whites the way some cakes do ( in fact , my recipe specified egg yolks only ) . The second point is one you already mentioned in the question . It seems that the English tradition is to eat scones with cream and jam . I tried it with my own scones , and the combination was quite good . I do n't eat much jam , as it is too sweet for my taste , but the pairing with the bland scones was really nice . A sweeter or richer vehicle would have made the whole thing overwhelming .
If you 're boiling something rapidly , and it 's not in a terribly deep , narrow pot , then essentially all of the heat output of the burner is going into turning water into steam . The latent heat of vaporization of water is 2260 kJ/kg , so if you want to reduce something by a volume V , and your stove has power P , the time required is : If V happens to be in mL , and P is in W ( J/s ) : This would be modified slightly if you 're using a really tall , skinny pot , since the convection within the pot , from the bottom to the top of the liquid , would be less efficient , with more heat transferred to the sides of the pot and out into the air , but I doubt you 're actually going to try to reduce something like that . The P here is the effective power ; for example , a gas burner wastes a lot of heat out the sides , so the advertised power will be higher . See <URL> for approximate efficiencies . If you do n't know the power of your stove , in all honesty , the easiest way to measure it would probably be to just see how long it takes to boil away a given volume of water , and work backwards . To get an accurate result , you should not boil a pot dry - once the water is a thin enough layer , the heat transfer might start working differently , with the pot itself heating up more , and water splattering . So you could , for example , put in a liter of water , boil away at the stove setting you intend to measure until it 's substantially reduced in volume , record the time , then pour it out to measure how much you boiled away . At this point , knowing the power output might be overkill , though ; you can really just measure the time per volume reduction , and use that , unless you care about the power for other reasons . Trying to deduce the power of the stove from , say , the temperature of an empty pot or of the burner without a pot on it ( assuming it 's electric ) would be difficult ; you 'd have to deal with the heat transfer between metal and air , and the convection in the air . Dependence on ingredients should n't be significant - you 're still just boiling water , unless there 's a substantial amount of alcohol , in which case the latent heat of vaporization will be different . Pure alcohol has a latent heat of vaporization of 841 kJ/kg ; I have n't found a good table for mixtures . For solutions , as I noted in the comments , the latent heat of vaporization should be that of water , plus/minus the heat of solution of the solutes ( I forget which direction that 's measured in ) . The most common solutes are probably salt and sugar , which have heats of solution of 70 and 16 J/g , respectively . ( I found <URL> , and converted . ) The next most common thing I could think of that might be present in substantial concentrations is citric acid ; <URL> reports a heat of solution of -57 J/g . In all these cases it 's small compared to the latent heat of vaporization of water , so pretending the liquid is water should be a good approximation . It 's possible that things change if you 're reducing really far : heat of solution does depend on concentration . That is , things are different thermodynamically ( statistical mechanically ? ) in a nearly-saturated sugar syrup than in slightly sweet water .
No , it 's not necessary . You can do it , and if you 'd soak them for about an hour , the cooking time will diminish strongly ( half ) . I 'm not sure if this would affect the chalky taste . Which kind of lentils do you use ?
Japanese style whetstones made of natural material , also known as " waterstones " , rely on water to make a paste from the material , and this paste is abrasive and aids in sharpening . Oil is not as effective as water in making this " mud " as the stone material is n't as soluble in oil . Further , once you have used oil on any type of whetstone , water may no longer be used as a lubricant , as it will be shed by the oil that has soaked into the stone and be ineffective in carrying away the swarf ( metal abraded from the blade by sharpening ) . Here is a <URL> on natural waterstones from an online retailer .
end question
start question
Is deep-frying silicone oil safe for home use ?
Not much is out there . Food-grade silicone oil ( dimethylpolysiloxane , for the chemists out there ) is routinely used in medical and food-prep devices , and it has been approved by the US FDA Office of Food Additive Safety for use as a direct additive in diverse foods , like milk , dry gelatin dessert mix , canned pineapple juice , and even salt . Of course , we 're talking about minuscule amounts , in the range of 100 ppm ; at high concentrations , it is a skin and eye irritant . So what level is safe ? We ca n't assume that the FDA ever tested it , as the Office of Food Additive Safety is woefully underfunded . An informal literature search yielded me only a handful of scientific articles looking at silicone oil in frying . The most promising was by Bertrand Matthaus , Norbert Haase , and Klaus Vossman , " Factors affecting the concentration of acrylamide during deep fat frying of potatoes , " Eur . J. Of Lipid Sci . &amp; Tech. , V. 106 ( 11 ) , pp. 793-801 ( Nov 2004 ) ( fig. 3 specifically measures acrylamide concentration as a function of the amount of silicone oil ) . Unfortunately , I do n't have a subscription , so I ca n't tell what the bottom line was . Myself , I do n't see the benefit of using it at home .
The problem is that there are different types of olive oil that are used for dramatically different purposes . A high quality ' cold pressed extra virgin ' oil often has fruity notes that are destroyed when you heat it , but is great for drizzling over things at the last minute , or cold applications such as salad dressings ... but note that the US labeling laws are lax , so something labeled as ' extra virgin ' in the US may not qualify as such in Europe . For most cooking , I use a good grade olive oil ( ' virgin ' , but not ' extra virgin ' ) for cooking with , not the extremely expensive stuff . For frying , there 's ' extra light ' olive oil which has a higher smoke point but little to no flavor on its own . It 's refined to such a point that you might be better off just going with any neutral flavored oil ( canola/rape , soy , corn , etc. ) Price depends on a lot of things , and a lot of it 's marketing and worthless -- if you can , I 'd look for other signs of quality ... like if there 's a packing date . Older oil is more likely to have deteriorated , and in a worst case , have gone rancid . ( more likely if it 's in a clear glass bottle ... if you 're buying large amounts of oil , keep it out of sunlight , or even better , buy it in a can ) Note that packing dates can also be cheated -- they might press the oil , then hold it for months before it 's actually bottled for sale . Also beware of ' blended oils ' . This is when they cut olive oil with something less expensive , but still try to pass it off as ' olive oil ' . ' Imported from Italy ' is another suspect label , as it might be foreign olives that were sent to Italy before being imported . ( but there 's nothing wrong with non-Italian olives ... the Greeks and Spanish make some great olive oils , and we 're starting to see more <URL> ) . ... Also note that olive oil can be classified like wines -- some companies might press a single variety of olive ( eg , Kalamata , Castelvetrano ) , which can have dramatically different flavors . They might be fruity , grassy , buttery , or even peppery . Regions can also have an impact , as some areas press olives while green , and others wait until they 're black . I wo n't get into these , as that 's more a matter of personal taste .
As a substitute for untoasted sesame oil , most light oils will work ( light olive , peanut , canola , sunflower , etc ) . Any nut or seed oil should be pretty close . Toasted sesame oil has a much bolder and nuttier flavor . It could perhaps be approximated with a light oil and adding toasted sesame to your dish .
You should n't heat a non stick pan without the oil , because it is too easy to overheat it and ruin the coating . So , I put oil inside first , and tell by the state of the oil . It smells , looks and flows different when it is hot enough . You can also learn to judge if there is sufficient heat when you hold your palm at a given distance above the pan , but in my experience , you learn to judge by the oil before you have gotten good enough to keep the same distance and to distinguish " enough " from " not enough " heat . If you do n't have enough experience to know when the oil is ready , you have to do it repeatedly until you learn it . It takes a few less-than-great meals if you do it purely by trial and error , and goes better if you use an infrared thermometer . You can also try floating cubes of stale white bread and watch their browning behavior , but I find this method too involved logistically - you have to have the bread , cut it , then deal with messy pieces of oily bread , and end up with slowly charring crumbles in your pan .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
Whenever you want grill marks . Or , perhaps , if you want to ensure fat rendered out of meat drips away . Why you would want to do this I do not know .
In general places that do this with pancakes do not cut-out , but indeed use a mold or the like . The scrambled eggs would likely look fine " cut " , but part of a pancake is the edge , even if it is modified by touching the edge of the mold . So long as the mold is metal , your dollar-store purchases should be fine . You will likely need to oil/butter them in some way so that the product - batter or egg - does not stick to the metal itself . I have myself used clean old tuna tins to make round " self-contained " fried eggs for a home version of a McMuffin .
Here 's a quote from the short section " Stir-Fry " in the Gargantuan work " Modernist Cuisine " : ... a wok burner can deliver up to [ ... ] 200,000 BTU/h of thermal power . [ ... ] By comparison , Western-style professional gas burners deliver [ ... ] 15,000-30 ,000 BTU/h ) , and domestic gas burners [ ... ] 6,000-14 ,000 BTU/h ) ... So for professional stir-fry ( " bao " in thai - I think ) , the hotter the better . But there 's also non-professional " chow " stir-fry , which is , in " Modernist Cuisine " s words , more like a " covered saute " . You do n't do the asian stir-fry because the flame is just too small , so you cook the fresh foods in their juices , stop while they 're still crisp , and know that the world holds compassion also for guys with stoves like ours .
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
I do n't think you will hurt the pan , cast iron skillets can take a lot of heat . I think the biggest risk is that you are building a kind of dangerous tower . If you were to somehow knock it over you could hurt yourself badly .
In the Caribbean green plantains are treated much like potatoes . One technique that is common is twice-frying , usually with a soak in water either before the first fry , in between , or both . Soaking plantains allows them to absorb a little water to help steam the inside as it fries , much like one would do for American-style french fries ( UK : chips ) . One example of this technique is <URL> . The Puerto Rican classic cookbook " Cocina Criolla " by Carmen Valldejuli calls for soaking the plantain pieces in room temperature water with salt and crushed garlic for 15 minutes as well as dipping them in water immediately before the second fry . Like many potatoes , green plantains will often turn brown if left out in the air for too long after being peeled , soaking in water also helps prevent this from occurring as well as reducing the amount of free starch on the outside which can cause over-browning . Elsewhere , both in the Americas and Africa , green plantains are cut very thinly and fried into <URL> ( UK : crisps ) . These are usually 1-2mm thick and also benefit from presoaking . If you decide not to fry them you could also boil them in salted water like a potato or boil them in vinegar with onions , garlic , and spices to make an escabeche . You could also partially cook them in salted water or stock then bake them in the oven .
In between freezings it is wisest to cook it . So if you take out raw meat , and then cook it , you can freeze it again . If you take out cooked stuff , you should get it piping hot throughout , cool it quickly , and then freeze it again . It may not have a super pleasant texture - if you do n't ave an emotional attachment to it , you might want to just toss it .
Yes it is completely safe . It is even <URL> . • To get rid of stuck-on food or discoloration , and stains from using too high of a heat , we recommend cleaning your All-Clad with a product called Bar Keeper 's Friend . Bar Keeper 's Friend even has a cookware specific cleanser , <URL> . I 'm not sure of the difference between this and their regular cleanser , since they are n't required to list ingredients , but it is marketed specifically for cookware , and priced equivalently . Other manufacturers recommend this product as well , as noted on the <URL> page . You should also check out <URL> on how to remove brown stains . The accepted answer there is BKF . If you have something particularly terrible that BKF ca n't handle , you can always use <URL> , though I daresay your wife will say no to this . :-)
REDACTED . Botulism growth is inhibited at pH of 4.6 or lower . The pH of this recipe is lower than 4.6 because of the vinegars . <URL> After re-reading the recipe , I think the OP is right . This is not the safest recipe out there . For a great pickling recipe that is safe , try this : <URL>
It depends how you like your rice . Personally I like my fried rice to have a few sticky lumps through it to add texture . Others may like it completely ' separated ' . It 's really up to you . I usually use a combination of long grain and Basmati . Another point is to make sure your rice is safe - it needs to be cooled relatively quickly , and kept cool , to prevent the growth of Bacillus cereus , which can cause serious ( no pun intended ) food poisoning . As it happens , fried rice is much better when cooked with cold rice and very hot oil anyway , so it 's a good idea to keep it cool in any case .
I make kimchi regularly . It sits on a shelf at room temperature for a week or more , and slowly ferments . Some people ferment it for months . Sure , it likes a <URL> , but a few hours on a bus is n't going to hurt it .
Hot water and detergent might be enough , but after serious mold growth , I 'd use a disinfectant . The easiest way to do this would be to disinfect your cooker with bleach , which is very effective at killing mold on non-porous surfaces . After thoroughly washing and rinsing your cooker , make a solution of 10 parts water to 1 part bleach and allow it to soak in your cooker for a few minutes , then dump it out and allow the cooker to air dry . <URL> ( note that the caveat here is that bleach is n't effective for porous surfaces . Anything that you 're cooking on should be an acceptable surface for using bleach on . )
The vanilla chapter of Ian Hemphill 's " Spice and Herb Bible " says , Vanilla is also delicious in savory cooking because it is not overtly sweet . An innovative Mauritian restaurant in Sydney served a delicious vanilla chicken [ ... ] It was aromatic delicate and beautifully balanced . The same book has a recipe for Vanilla Salmon Salad where vanilla seeds are scraped into the dressing . I did a quick taste test using vanilla extract with various savory things from my fridge . Here are the results : Cheese : tasted fine , but I would n't call it a taste sensation ; Vegeburger : nasty combination ; I think the leeks in the burger were a problem ; Avocado : actually quite a nice combination ; Roasted aubergine : not bad ; Tomato : fine ; Savory omelet : not good ; onions do n't seem to work with vanilla extract ; Baked beans in tomato sauce : very nice . Note that using vanilla extract and a vanilla bean to flavor a dish are not the same thing . There is an amount of alcohol in the vanilla extract I used ( bourbon ) and this may completely invalidate the test . Having said that , the first indications are that alliums ( onions , leeks , garlic etc ) do n't go with vanilla . So onion soup may not be a good plan . And since curry generally contains plenty of onion and garlic , I 'm skeptical about using it there too . Turning to the question of whether vanilla and vanillin become dangerous when heated , the answer is almost certainly no . That does n't mean that heating vanilla is inconsequential . Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " mentions that vanilla beans contain more than 200 volatile compounds and notes , Prepared vanilla extracts [ ... ] are best added toward the end of cooking ; any period of time spent at a high temperature causes aroma loss . On the other hand , heating vanillin at normal cooking temperatures ( i.e. normal for soup and curry ) is not a problem . Its <URL> . As another answer mentions , vanilla has a more complex taste to pure vanillin . Most of what you will read comparing the two will be very much in favor of using real vanilla beans in cooking . Instead of repeating this advice , I 'm reminded of having read that in a Cook 's Illustrated <URL> to synthetic vanillin , the artificial flavoring came out on top . It 's probably not be enough to conclude that vanillin tastes better than vanilla but may encourage you to forge ahead if vanillin is all you can afford . Update : Having read @papin 's suggestion that you may need to caramelize the onions , I just did a quick taste test with rostad lök ( not sure how it translates from Swedish , the literal translation is toasted onion ) . It tasted slightly better but still not great . Again , I 'm using vanilla extract so my taste test is not necessarily valid .
Coconut oil is a saturated fat , which makes it solid at room temperature . Above room temperature , it behaves exactly like any other oil and has a very high smoke point . You do n't need to treat it in any special way . I personally just use a knife or spoon to dig a little bit out of the container . Coconut oil is considered to have a neutral flavour ( with the exception of some " virgin " coconut oils ) . It 's much weaker than , say , olive oil . You 'll most likely not be able to detect any coconut flavour from oil alone - you have to use something like creamed coconut ( a common ingredient in satays ) for that . P.S. Although it might appear to be similar to butter or margarine , keep in mind that it is actually a cooking oil , unlike butter which has milk solids that burn , or margarine which is hydrogenated to make it solid . Coconut oil is just barely solid and wo n't always work as a substitute for those other things .
According to ( US ) <URL> : ( c ) In accordance with § 184.1 ( b ) ( 1 ) , the ingredient is used in food with no limitations other than current good manufacturing practice . ( d ) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived . Basically , you can eat the stuff by the spoon-full if you can stand the sour . If you 're adding a lot compared to how much you think you should have to add , you might consider Phosphoric acid instead . You get a little <URL> with that , and it too , within limits , is generally regarded as safe ( GRAS ) .
end question
start question
What cooking techniques can be used on a barbecue ?
First off , you can use a gas grill as a gas burner , and cook anything you could on the stove . It wo n't be very efficient , and wo n't be as pleasant as using a stove , but it 'll work . The one big inconvenience is that since the burner wo n't be appropriately sized to the pan , or directly beneath it , you 'll need pots and pans that can handle heat all around - in particular , you ca n't use anything that ca n't take the heat on the handle . Cast iron might be your best bet . But from there you can do whatever you want - saute , sear , etc. . You 're not really limited to one technique . You can also essentially use the grill as an oven if you want to . You wo n't have precise temperature control like you would in the oven , and the temperature will vary more from side to side and top to bottom than it would in an oven , but it can reach the same kinds of temperatures . If you get a thermometer with a probe that can be left inside the grill , then you 'll be able to adjust the heat as needed and get a sufficiently precise temperature to do most things you could do in the oven . You 'll want to use indirect heat to do this , so that whatever you 're cooking is n't incredibly hot on the bottom . If you have three burners , you can use the two on the sides and put the food in the middle ; if you have two you 'll have to use one on one side and put the food on the other , resulting in somewhat less even heating . Here again , you 're not really limited to one technique . You can do braised things inside a dutch oven ( like a pot roast ) . You can wrap things up in foil and roast them . You 'll have a bit more trouble with things that are meant to cook open and care more about even heating , so for example thinner slices of meat ( or fish filets ) on a baking sheet might not be a great idea , but there 's still plenty you can do . All-in-all , I would n't think of this as learning a list of techniques . I 'd just look for recipes you 're interested in trying , and see if they seem like they 'll work on the grill given all that .
Adding oil or butter makes scrambled eggs more creamy by giving the egg protein something to hold onto and not curl as tight . The ideal formula for scrambled eggs is one extra yolk for every 4 eggs plus a little fat . I did n't like scrambled eggs until I tried this formula and it 's awesome . Credit goes to either Jack Bishop ( Cooks Illustrated ) and/or Nathan Myhrvold ( Modernist Cuisine ) unfortunately I ca n't remember which of the two clever gents I heard it from .
Flick water on the pan . If it just sits there , it 's not hot enough . If it combines into balls and skates around on the pan , it 's either too hot or just right for a wok or blackening something . If it sizzles and evaporates within a couple of seconds , it should be good for a normal sautee or sweat .
Well , yes and no . A lot of recipes for semifreddo are n't truly semifreddo because they are hard frozen . Recipes like that can be fried just like ice cream . The key to fried ice cream is to hard freeze the scoops of ice cream . By definition , that is n't semifreddo , but definitions do n't seem to matter much to writers of recipes . So , if the " stuff " is hard frozen , it can be coated and fried like fried ice cream . Perhaps after being deep fried , the name " semifreddo " is more apropos .
Salt is a good means to control/suppress flames and flareups without having a cooling effect on the coals .
Not being aware of your location , some general tips : 1 ) Buy your fish from a fishmonger , and tell him/her what you are using it for . You want to do business with somebody who 's business is selling fish and only selling fish . They are going to know what 's been stored to eaten raw standards in a way that the just above minimum wage fish guy at your grocery store does n't . 2 ) Do n't buy it early . Buy it the day you mean to consume it or the day that you going to prep it . This question can help walk you through <URL> 3 ) Take a cooler to get your fish . You have to maintain the freshness , that means not allowing it raise in temperature anymore than you have to .
First off , you can use a gas grill as a gas burner , and cook anything you could on the stove . It wo n't be very efficient , and wo n't be as pleasant as using a stove , but it 'll work . The one big inconvenience is that since the burner wo n't be appropriately sized to the pan , or directly beneath it , you 'll need pots and pans that can handle heat all around - in particular , you ca n't use anything that ca n't take the heat on the handle . Cast iron might be your best bet . But from there you can do whatever you want - saute , sear , etc. . You 're not really limited to one technique . You can also essentially use the grill as an oven if you want to . You wo n't have precise temperature control like you would in the oven , and the temperature will vary more from side to side and top to bottom than it would in an oven , but it can reach the same kinds of temperatures . If you get a thermometer with a probe that can be left inside the grill , then you 'll be able to adjust the heat as needed and get a sufficiently precise temperature to do most things you could do in the oven . You 'll want to use indirect heat to do this , so that whatever you 're cooking is n't incredibly hot on the bottom . If you have three burners , you can use the two on the sides and put the food in the middle ; if you have two you 'll have to use one on one side and put the food on the other , resulting in somewhat less even heating . Here again , you 're not really limited to one technique . You can do braised things inside a dutch oven ( like a pot roast ) . You can wrap things up in foil and roast them . You 'll have a bit more trouble with things that are meant to cook open and care more about even heating , so for example thinner slices of meat ( or fish filets ) on a baking sheet might not be a great idea , but there 's still plenty you can do . All-in-all , I would n't think of this as learning a list of techniques . I 'd just look for recipes you 're interested in trying , and see if they seem like they 'll work on the grill given all that .
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
The easiest method , and most common in a commercial setting , would be to add a small amount of yeast in addition to the sourdough starter . You will probably have to reformulate a bit , as the dough will mature faster leaving the starter less time to develop flavor . This is usually overcome by also increasing the proportion of starter ( and adjusting the final dough 's hydration based on the hydration of your starter ) . For instance , if your original recipe included 30 % starter ( in baker 's math ) , the faster version might have 40 % starter and .5 % yeast . If you use a liquid starter , you may then cut the water by 5 % or so , and if you use a solid starter no further adjustment may be needed .
The cooking snobs will say that butter is better , and even my fading taste buds can sometimes detect the difference . But much of the time you can make the substitute . BTW the reason for the 7/8 figure is that butter runs about 1/8 water . So you may have to use 7/8 cup of oil and 1-2 tablespoons of water . The biggest difference between solid fat and oil will occur when you see lines like , " Blend together with a pastry blender until you have crumbs the size of a pea . A pie crust made with oil will not be a tender flaky crust . However for bannock making in the bush , corn oil works fine as a substitute for lard . and it 's a heck of a lot easier to keep . A comment below mentions cookie recipes . For this to be successful , the flour to fat ratio has to be fairly high . Bannock is 1 cup of flour to 1-2 tbs of fat . This is small enough that the flour absorbs all the oil . Another signal : If the directions call for chilling the dough then there is enough fat in the mix that using oil would make the recipe way too liquid . I suspect this is the case with many cookies . Cake recipes usually do n't have as high a fat : flour ratio as many cookies , but cakes are often very fussy about ingredient ratios . So : Test before counting on it . It does work for bannock . 1 cup flour 1 to 3 tbs fat or oil 1/4 tsp salt 1 tsp baking powder Tiny amount of water . If you are going to fry the bannock , go light on the oil . Mix flour and salt and baking powder . Mix in fat . Mix in just enough water to make a stiff dough that holds together . It is very easy to overdo . Knead only long enough to mix . Cooking : 1 . Shape into long strips about 3/8 " thick , wrap around smooth pole and bake over a 10 second fire for 15 minutes rotating slowly . ( A 10 second fire : YOu can hold your hand where the cooking happens for 10 seconds ) Pat out into 3/8 to half inch slabs . Cook in a frying pan over a 20 second fire for 5-10 minutes on a side . Pat out to 1/8 " thick . Drop into a bucket with 2 inches of smoking hot lard in the bottom . Lift out with tongs after 30 seconds . Method 1 will keep campers busy for a long time . Method 2 makes bannock you can use for a meal later . Method 3 is the fastest method , but it is dangerous .
I use a similar recipe , unfortunately I do n't remember the original source , but I 've changed over time anyway . Things I do n't use that you have in your recipe : Sugar Jack Daniels Cider Vinegar Worcestershire sauce mustard Things I do use : Lots of fresh ground spices . Typically 4 or 5 cloves , teaspoon of cumin seeds , tablespoon of fennel seeds , black pepper and salt . Fresh herbs , including Rosemary , Bay and thyme Balsamic vinegar - about half a bottle of inexpensive stuff Orange zest - zest of one whole orange Smoked Paprika - about 4 heaped teaspoons Olive oil - about 4 tablespoons grind-up the spices and place in the marinade tray . medium fine chop the fresh herbs ( leave the fresh bay leaves whole ) with the orange zest and a whole bulb of garlic , then add to the spice mixture . To that add juice from an orange , the Balsamic , followed by the ketchup and olive oil . Mix well . Score the meat well and add to the marinade tray . rub the marinade mixture into all the scores so that the meat is well penetrated . Cover the tray with foil and cook in an oven for about an hour ( depends on the meat and the amount ) once it 's out of the oven it can be placed on the barby .
Well , if you do n't want to spend a fortune on a <URL> , your best bet is a bone saw . Image from <URL> Here 's one on <URL> . Here 's a less expensive one from <URL> . Here 's a fairly reasonably priced <URL> . If I was going to do a lot of butchery , I 'd consider that .
Flour labeled as Cake flour usually is weak flour : low value , or less formally " low protein " or " fewer gluten " . This is somehow weird , as some cakes will require weak flour , whether others nedd strong flour ( for yeasted dough cakes , if they add lots of fat/oil to the dough , if they add lots of sugar , pieces of fruits/nuts , etc ) . I specifically do n't know whether Maida is strong or weak flour , despite <URL> . Wheat plants has been selected for several milleniums to get more productive varieties , and , yes , grains that give stronger flour . Substitutes as weak flour Trying to get flour from a more " primitive " variety of wheat , such as <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . These are expensive where I live , and usually sold as bio , but maybe spelt is easily found in India . As they have not been so " genetically selected " , they still have less gluten than today 's " normal " flour . They also tend to have more and better taste than " normal " flour . Another flour with low gluten content is rye . It has a different taste than wheat , but I thing it fits really well with cakes . This grain grows better in colder climates , so I 'm not very sure how hard will it be to get it where you live . Other flours , as rice or corn / maize have no gluten . It means gas bubbles wo n't be trapped in , and will result in a much too dense crumb . You might search some gluten-free bread tricks to solve this . Substitutes as strong flour Any bread flour will probably work . Maybe it wo n't rise as much and you 'll get a crumb with a denser consistency , more similar to a " chewing gum " than a " soft cake " . But if you are ok with this , you can go on . Note ( Thank to @Anisha for the suggestion ) : Notice that different flours have different absorption , so some readjustment on hydration should probably be made to the original recipe .
Peanut butter cookies do n't spread as they cook , so you have to flatten them before hand . This ensures that the middle will cook through before the outside burns . As for the pattern created , it actually creates slightly more surface area , so you 'll get more browning at the extra edges that you create . Think of it like a meringue , or the top of a shepherd 's pie -- if it 's too smooth , you wo n't get the little bits of browned crispy bits that you 'd get if you rough up the surface .
To extend what GdD said , the reason why yeast raised breads and quick breads are so different comes down to gluten development . Yeast raised breads have structure based on gluten , which is a protein created in wheat flours ( due to enzymatic action on other proteins in the flour ) over time in a moist environment , or when physically agitated . Gluten has a strong , elastic structure providing the toothsome bite typical of yeast raised breads . The techniques , which typically involve one or more of : Long , slow fermentation by yeast -- the physical raising of the dough not only leavens it , but also helps gluten development Kneading , to enhance quicker gluten formation So called autolysis , or allowing to set in cool conditions as a moist dough for slow gluten development without extra work from kneading The result is a strong gluten structure , trapping gas bubbles , giving the charactaristic texture of breads . Quick breads are the polar opposite . As a general class , they are intended to be tender and soft , not chewy and resilient . The " muffin method " used to create them intentionally minimizes gluten development by : Not using yeast to raise the dough Mixing a minimal amount to discourage gluten formation Baking immediately ( in most cases ) after the batter is combined , in order to mininize gluten development from sitting time in moist conditions . The result of course is a tender cake , bread , or muffin . Typical cake techniques such as the creaming method also control gluten development by : Pre-creaming the butter with sugar , and then adding the eggs prior to combining with flour . The fat/sugar phase then coats the flour particles minimizing their interaction , and discouraging gluten formation . Cake batters , like quick bread batters , are not usually held , minimizing time for passive gluten formation Each of these methods is tuned for the outcome desired , and they can not easily be swapped . That being said , there are quick breads which are less like the sweet cake like banana bread for example -- the most iconic is probably Irish soda bread , but this does not change the general fact that yeast raised breads are a very different beast due to the gluten development . Still , they are their own beast , and not like a yeast raised bread .
Sounds like sliced water chestnuts to me , especially with the name similarity .
I finally found the answer to this question : I was in the supermarket yesterday and on a can of lentils the ingredients listed on the side of the tin had the phrase ' firming agent ' in brackets beside the entry for calcium chloride .
There are substitutes , but eggs have very important effects on the texture of dough and are therefore hard to substitute . You will need to experiment a great deal until you hit on the correct texture , because you 'll need to tweak all other ingredients and maybe include new ones , e.g. substitute part of the butter and use cream instead to account for moisture loss from egg substitutes . Mien 's link already includes some substitute ideas , like applesauce and commercial imitations . I ca n't give you more suggestions , because I always put eggs in my cakes ;) . But when tweaking , keep following in mind : Egg whites provide a resilient mesh which traps small air bubbles , so they make a cake more airy . You may need to adjust the baking powder upwards a bit . If it is a soda recipe , you 'll need to raise the acidity too . But the whole effect ca n't be approximated just with baking powder , because its bubbles are too big . For that , you need better emulsification ( covered below ) . Egg whites also have a binding quality . This should n't need compensation in a cake , as you need a dough without too much binding ( as opposed to bread ) , but if your cake starts falling apart , consider using a flour with higher gluten content ( all purpose flour instead of cake flour ) . Gluten binds too . If , on the other hand , your cake is too bread-like , then you may need less binding . The egg yolks are a source of fat , which prevents the dough gluten from forming a strong mesh by covering the particles . You will miss this with egg substitutes , especially if they are pectin-based ( like applesauce ) because pectin enhances binding . Use the lower gluten dough ( it it does n't cause the cake to fall apart ) or add more fat . Then there is the importance of emulsifiers . Egg yolks are one of the best sources of lecithin in the kitchen . An emulsifier helps your wet ingredients bind in an emulsion , instead of staying in two separate phases with the watery phase soaking the flour through and the fatty phase making the whole thing greasy . It also helps the trapping of very tiny air bubbles in the wet part of the dough ( this is what happens when you beat eggs with sugar on high speed until the colour lightens ) which provides a very fine leavening . Maybe commercial egg imitates contain emulsifiers - check the list - but if they do n't , you must buy pure lecithin . It is usually soy derived , but maybe you need to check with the manufacturer that your brand is suitable for vegetarians . Also , consider including cream , the fat in it is already emulsified in water , unlike butter ( which is water emulsified in fat ) . You must calculate precisely and tweak other ingredients to ensure that the total amount of fat and moisture do n't change ( except if you are compensating for the changes caused by the egg substitute ) . If it is a chocolate cake , consider reducing the fat and the flour and adding some cocoa powder ( the regular-fat variety ) . Cocoa has binding and thickening properties , and will help with the more even fat distribution . Melted chocolate tastes good in cakes , but makes them very dense , so do n't use it . The easiest way would be to find a recipe published by someone who has already done all the work . But just from paging through a cookbook , you ca n't tell if they did it right , or just slapped a spoon of applesauce instead of an egg and called it a vegan cake . Edit : I just had an idea when I saw Mien 's gelatine question and yours together in the list . I have n't heard of anybody using it , and do n't know if it will work , but it does , it will be great . So try it . I already said that using cream would help . As you need a foam full of very tiny bubbles for the perfect leavening , you could try whipped cream instead of whipped eggs . The trouble is that the air will get out of the batter very quickly while and after folding the cream . So you 'll need to stabilize it . Gelatine in unusually small quantities will make for a very nice experiment , but obviously not one you 'll want to do . But plant-derived gelling agents could help . Carrageenan is commonly used with dairy products , and you can buy it online . So try folding stabilized whipped cream into the batter .
Certainly , no chorizo skin is going to poison you . On that basis , if you 're happy with your results , then carry on . I have used chorizo where the papery skin peels off quite easily -- but I have never seen a need to remove it .
Often there 's no secret sauce that restaurants use , but plain old bog-standard sugar . I know it 's boring , but there you go . They also may be using bottled sweet and sour sauce , which is also boring , but readily available in many supermarkets . All is not lost , however , as if you want some more authentic ingredients then there are plenty of options . In my kitchen ( which is n't big enough to satisfy my capacity requirements for exotic ingredients otherwise this list would be bigger ) I have several ingredients which impart sweetness to Asian dishes : Palm sugar : more of a Thai than a Chinese ingredient , but I use it for many different cuisines . It imparts a slightly syrupy flavor . In the UK this can be found in any big grocery store in the Asian section . Sweet soy syrup : Also can be found under the name Kecap Manis , this is an Indonesian ingredient . It is basically teriyaki concentrate , it 's salty , very sweet , and has some spices in it . I use it in all sorts of Asian cooking ( and I sometimes add it to gravy to darken and sweeten it ) , and it would be my choice for the dish you want to make . I would add it instead of soy sauce until I have the sweetness I 'm looking for , then add regular soy to bring the saltiness to the right level . Adding a little bit of water helps loosen it up Honey : not a purely Asian ingredient of course , but honey can be magic anyway . The floral notes may be just what you need Now for the sour : Tamarind : you mentioned tamarind in your post as something to sweeten , but tamarind is actually quite sour . I use paste at home , it lasts forever in the fridge Lime or lemon juice : of the two I prefer lime juice when making Asian cooking sour . I ca n't quite say why . Rice vinegar : This is a very commonly used souring agent , I use it most often in Chinese cooking , and it would be my choice for a fried rice dish Also worth mentioning is Mirin - a reduced-alcohol Sake , usually with a bit of salt added . It 's used widely in Japanese cuisine . I personally do n't use it much , but it 's worth having in the flavor arsenal .
end question
start question
What does " rap " mean for brownies recipe ?
The oven shelf is not the back of the oven . Basically what you would do is lift one side a little ( maybe an inch or so ) and let it drop . Then you can do the other side . This will give you a more fudgy and less cake-like crumb , as the cake-like finish comes from trapped air bubbles . If you rap the pan to help the air escape then you have less trapped air and thus a denser , more fudge-like crumb .
Yes , the original recipes involved an enormous amount of trial and error . People baked , swapped recipes , and the good ones were desirable and became widespread , while the bad ones died out . The advanced knowledge of food chemistry was n't even available at the time - Hannah Glasse published her cookbook more then 100 years before Mendeleev published the periodic table . Luckily , you do n't have to go through the same process if you want to invent a good recipe now . There are only a few basic ingredients in baking - eggs , sugar , flour , water - and you can be sure that all possible ways to combine them , as well as most secondary additions and substitutions , have been thoroughly explored . People have distilled the knowledge of this exploration in books , and you can use this basic knowledge to build new recipes which will function with a high probability . Before you develop a baking recipe , there are four things you have to know . Technique . If you want to create a cookie recipe , you will have to use creaming . If you want to make a new kind of eclair , you have to know how to prepare a basic pate a choux . There are cookbooks teaching these techniques , some of them are explained in questions here on SA . Base ratio . For most baked goods , there are ratios which give you the best results . For example , for a crepe you want 1 part flour , two parts egg and two parts liquid . As long as you keep that , you can let your imagination run free by using different liquids , or adding spices , or even plopping pieces of fruit in the pan and pouring the batter over them . You can learn about this from Ruhlman 's book Ratio , or use a known-good recipe for a plain variant of the good you are trying to make as your starting point . Flavor combinations . You can add any ingredients you want , but there is no guarantee they will work well together . Choosing the right ones is a combination of talent ( being able to imagine what a combination will taste like before you have had it ) and experience . You should try to be more analytical about the flavors of things you eat - which tastes can you distinguish ? Which aromas ? What makes them go well together ? Is it their similarity , or the contrast ? - and when you have done that long enough , you will be able to predict the goodness of a combination . A book to help you along is The Flavor Bible , which describes good combinations . You can also take popular combinations and transfer them across types of food . For example , if you like apple-cinnamon pie , you can try to make cinnamon cookies glued in pairs with apple butter . Ingredients ' structure and their role in the baked good . This knowledge is maybe the least usual among home cooks . When you create new recipes , you will always dilute the base formula , or use substitutions . If you do n't have this knowledge , it will be hit-or-miss whether your new recipe will work or not . It is a bit like rebuilding a house 's interior without knowing which walls are load-bearing and which are n't . If you know what each ingredient does in a recipe , you will know when a substitution is possible and when it is n't . For example , many people will tell you that applesauce is a substitute for eggs . And you can indeed bake a cake with applesauce instead of eggs , but do n't try to whip a mayonnaise with it . This is because eggs have a different role in cake and mayonnaise . Learning about these roles requires a lot of effort , and a curiosity about these things . Most people will find it easier to just try whatever they feel like , and live with the occasional failed new-recipe attempt . If you would rather learn about them , I can recommend two sources . One is Cooking for geeks by Jeff Potter , which is short and does n't go into the depth of things , but offers lots of useful information and is easy to read , or the really exhaustive book called On Food and Cooking by Harold McGee , which runs to about 800 pages and goes into detail most people do n't want to know about , but is a must-read if you are fascinated by food science . And , of course you can always just run into the kitchen and experiment . Do n't forget to document along the way so you can reproduce your results ! Basically , you can always have luck and hit a good new recipe , the knowledge I listed above ( combined with some baking experience ) helps you increase your first-try success rate from about 2-3 % as a full amateur to somewhere about 80 % or more . It is your decision how to divide your time between reading and baking , any combination can function , depending on your learning style .
I would imagine , if the book is of reasonable quality , by prepared , they mean one that you have prepared earlier . If there 's a recipe for pizza base in the book , that 's probably what they 'd like you to use . Personally , if you 're going to the trouble of making home-made pizza , make your own base . Invariably , the pre-made bases you can buy from stores taste like chalk . There 's a few topics here that may be useful : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Short and sweet ... Use cake / pastry flour . At 5-7 % protein vs. 11 % for AP vs. 13 % + for bread flour , that means a lot less gluten formation . This protein , when mixed with water and subjected to mechanical working is what produces gluten . The higher the protein percentage , the ' tougher ' ( due to the gluten ) the final product . Always use cake or pastry flour when making any type of cake , even brownies . And a little extra egg wo n't hurt , either .
" Pure vanilla extract is made by macerating and percolating vanilla beans in a solution of ethyl alcohol and water . " [ Source : <URL> There is alcohol in it , that 's why it smells like it has alcohol in it :) So it is perfectly normal . Personally , I find extracts and essences of vanilla to be a complete waste . To get that lovely vanilla smell and vanilla taste , add vanilla beans . To combat the relative high cost of vanilla beans , buy in bulk and store correctly , your vanilla beans can last for ages .
If you have a recipe that already produces a dense fudgy brownie and you 're looking to do it without oil , you 're just out of luck . If you 're looking to produce a dense fudgy brownie and wondered if , while you were at it , you might cut back on the oil ... NO , but here are some suggestions for making a cakey brownie more dense and " fudgey " : Follow Tim 's advice above on using butter instead of oil . It 's not doing anything as far as calories but it will produce better flavor vs. a neutral oil . However , particularly if you 're planning to put nuts in them , you could replace a portion of the vegetable oil with walnut or hazelnut oil for enhanced nutty flavor . Replace half of the whole eggs with egg yolks . Cakiness in brownies is partly due to the use of whole eggs . Egg whites have a drying effect on baked goods . In converting a brownie recipe I did , I used 2 egg yolks for each whole egg . Replace part of the granulated sugar with corn syrup . They hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture and retain it ) of the corn syrup will create a more dense moist result . I think I replaced about half the sugar with corn syrup . The added moisture of the corn syrup will help to off-set the loss of moisture from removing the egg whites . Method/Technique : Heat chocolate , butter , cocoa powder over a hot water bath until chocolate is melted . Stir to blend to a smooth consistency . Set aside to cool slightly . Beat egg yolks/whole egg with sugar and corn syrup until thick , light in color , and mixture forms a " ribbon " . Combine dry ingredients and make a well in the center . Temper chocolate into egg/sugar mixture . Mix to blend well . Add to dry ingredients and fold together just until moistened . Pour into greased pan and bake until set .
Since temperature control is so vital to sous vide cooking , the circulation serves to make sure that all of the water is moving and of an even temperature . If you just had a heating element submerged without a circulator , you would get some convection currents , but there would be hot and cold spots in your water bath . If these differences were even just a few degrees , you could end up with proteins not hitting their coagulation temperatures , connective tissues not softening , pectin not broken down , etc. . All in all , it would defeat the purpose of this cooking method ! As for the differentiation between " circulators " and " water ovens " , there may not be one . Frequently the actual thermal unit and pump is referred to as the " circulator " and the whole assembly with a vessel and water is referred to as the " oven " , but I 'd check the specs of each model to see whether it has all the parts you 're looking for .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
When it comes to pairing specific ingredients , the general thinking seems to be that ingredients that share " flavour notes " in significant quantity will go well together . In practice it goes much deeper than that , because in addition to taste , foods have very specific and recognizable aromas which affect the perception of flavour ; wine is mostly sweet and sour , but you would n't substitute ordinary grape juice for it ; the aroma of the alcohol is unmistakable , and even between different wines you will have varying levels of " fruitiness " or " woodiness " . But let 's start with tastes : Chocolate and coffee go well together because they share characteristic bitter notes . The roasting of the beans also makes a difference ; the pairing works best when the roasting is enough to thermally degrade the bitterness without losing too much sweetness due to caramelization . This emphasizes the sweetness and de-emphasizes the bitterness and acidity of the coffee , making it closer to the flavour profile of chocolate . A traditional stock combines a mirepoix ( onions , carrots , celery ) with meat ( well , bones ) , both very high in umami . The end product may have varying notes of bitterness or saltiness from the vegetables but is basically one huge kick of umami . A lot of people also enjoy peanut butter and bacon together , which combines the significant umami and saltiness in both foods . Beets and sour cream are a traditional ( or so I 'm told ) Polish dish , both obviously sharing strong sour notes . Often chives are added , which are mildly pungent in nature and pungency tends to go with sour or bitter ( since it is created by sulfur which is perceived as sour , bitter , and also " metallic " ) . This tends to work reasonably well for basic pairings , but another very strong element of this is balancing all of the different flavours in a dish . Peanut butter and jam do n't seem to have much in common , flavour-wise . But when you combine them together in a sandwich you have the high umami and saltiness of the peanut butter , the sweet and slightly sour notes of the jam , and the hints of bitterness and/or sourness in the bread . Together you have strong notes of all five tastes and the result is appealing to most people . Five Spice is usually a mixture of cinnamon ( sweet ) , star anise ( mildly sweet and bitter ) , fennel ( mildly sweet and fairly savoury ) , ground cloves ( pungent and somewhat bitter ) , and Szechuan peppercorns ( salty and pungent with a sour aftertaste ) . The quantities are generally adjusted to balance out the tastes ; for example , fennel is the only really savoury ingredient so Five Spice tends to have more of that than other ingredients . Anyway , this is used all over Chinese cuisine as a sort of " wonder spice " . A really good roast chicken starts off high in umami and is then brined ( salty ) , buttered ( sweet ) , and roasted which involves the Maillard reaction ( bitter ) . This is missing sour , which is why a lot of cooks will throw a few lemon slices in there . But truthfully , even though this all sounds plausible , it 's really so much more complicated than that . Even though there 's some science at work here , the five tastes are a little like the four elements or humours ; it 's an almost archaic way of thinking about food chemistry , because our mouths and noses can detect so much more than that . If you want to see just how little we actually really know about flavour today , check out <URL> on Khymos , linked to from one of the related questions . There you 'll see totally nonsensical combinations like chocolate and garlic or mint and mustard that actually - with the right preparation of course - produce pretty pleasant flavours/aromas . The truth is people are still gathering data on this and we do n't really know , exactly , what makes some flavours work together . At least we 're starting to approach this scientifically and actually experiment and document this stuff , but there 's not enough data to form a coherent theory yet . Check the answers to my <URL> and the other question on <URL> if you want detailed data on which flavour pairings can " work " , although you might not get much of an explanation for why .
I suspect it means " ditto ( the above line ) " : <URL> seems to indicate that " do . " was an old way of abbreviating before the ditto mark ( " ) became widespread .
I ca n't select either of the above answers as the best answer for the following reason : The brownie I 'm making is meant to be " gooey " , and even after cooling for 2 hours , and then chilling in the fridge for another 30 minutes , the the upper-half brownie still remained fudge-like . I ended up using Jay 's suggestion to eye-ball a 4x4 grid , however I did n't use a hot knife . I used a plastic knife with an up-and-down sawing motion and got fantastic results . The cuts were as clean as you could ask for , and the entire process did n't take more than 5-10 minutes . As an aside : I decided to forgo the " aluminum foil sling " and just spray the 9 " x13 " pan with PAM , line the bottom with parchment paper , and spray it down one more time . The brownie " loaf " came out with zero fuss and had a perfect looking crust . edit : I plan on experimenting with 2 large metal rulers to score the loaf , instead of eyeballing the grid .
3 Rams is the brand . Pretty popular Chinese Cleaver manufacture . The number 2 is the weight of the knife . I think the numbers range from a # 1 ( heaviest ; bone chopping ) down to a # 5 ( lightest ; vegetable knife ) . If you 're looking for a vegetable knife yours is probably on the heavy side . It 's more suited to chopping up poultry/fish . A couple articles/forums , which seem to confirm my guess that lower is heavier : <URL> <URL> Edit and Disclaimer : The numbering system is also manufacture dependent ; some go from a 1-3 , some from a 1-5 . I am sure there are others as well . Best place to verify , would be if you could scope out a chinese market/store that sells the knives to compare what you have .
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
Do n't think of that as dough . This looks like basically making a quiche base to put pizza toppings on . I do n't see any reason to think this recipe wo n't be stable but it wo n't be anything like pizza crust . Still it sounds tasty .
Drain them first . Your concerns are spot-on , and if you measured and then drained them , you would end up with less than 1 cup of yams . Generally , you can tell be cause the recipe called for 1 cup of drained yams , not 1 cup of yams in their sauce . Drain them , but double check that you wo n't need the liquid for anything later on in the recipe ... That 's a mistake I 've made too many times with canned foods .
Oil is hydrogenated by bubbling hydrogen through it at high temperature ( on the order of 400 to 500 degrees F ) , in the presence of a catalyst such as nickel . Air is 0.00005 % hydrogen , you are probably not using temperatures high enough , nor doing it for a significantly long period of time , nor having an appropriate catalyst present . The amount of hydrogenation introduced via this recipe is somewhere between none and vanishingly small . However , coconut oil itself is about 92 % saturated fat -- which means the fats are naturally saturated with hydrogen . While a natural saturated fat , not a manufactured one , coconut oil is saturated . If your recipe is delicious and you enjoy it , eat up in moderation like anything else ( chocolate excepted ) . :-)
Use the tapioca starch , or , if you can not find that , another tuber starch . It is more waxy than cornstarch , and therefore better suited for a glaze . It will give you a glossy , transparent appearance . Cornstarch is a mealy starch , with high amylopectin content , and creates a soft , fluffy , somewhat cloudy mass , not as glossy or as transparent as waxy starches . By the way , it should n't have an off-taste if you cook it through . I guess that most recipes haunting the Internet use cornstarch because it is so much more common in a home kitchen , and the home bakers found the result good enough for their purposes and/or were not aware that tapioca will give them a better end product . As you describe that you want a really good glaze , go for the tapioca .
Canned beans are already cooked , so if you want the same texture ... yes . Soak and then cook your beans until they are just tender .
Sorting means a few things : Remove foreign objects like small stones , other seeds , twigs ... that may have accidentally been packed with the beans . Remove damaged ( think insect damage , for example ) or otherwise shrivelled , infected or moldy beans and loose skins . Hint : Hollow beans and skins float up . Double-check for bug infections . Sometimes there are little hitchhikers , even if you have impeccable hygiene at home . It boils down to making sure you have nothing in the pot that does n't belong in your meal .
I have never added butter to sponge sheets when making swiss rolls , jelly rolls , or anything similar in the past . It 's just straight up bread flour , sugar , and eggs . I can only think of three possible reasons why butter might be added : To improve the flavour ; To keep the sheets moist and help prevent overbaking , as any fat would be used in cake batter ; however , this is generally not a major concern in cake rolls ; or To help prevent it from sticking to the sheet ( do n't bother ; if you have this problem , use a silicone mat ) . Reasons # 2 and # 3 are n't very convincing to me , so I would only bother adding butter if you prefer the taste of swiss rolls with butter added . I do n't think butter would help with rolling at all , in fact it might make rolling more difficult on account of making the sheets more crumbly and less able to hold together under pressure .
end question
start question
Is canned or jarred minced garlic substantially different from fresh garlic ?
Yes , it is different . Does it matter ? It depends . If you 're going to use garlic in a stew or anything else that would ' dissolve ' the regular garlic anyway , it does n't really matter all that much in my opinion . If you want to preserve the texture and/or create a more ' urgent ' garlic flavour in short-cooked food , I 'd go with fresh . Sidenote : most of the prepared garlic comes with additives , consider if you want to have those as a part of your diet . As for keeping time once opened : no worries really - bacteria really do n't like garlic all that much , so refrigerated you should have no problems hitting 6 + months .
The green in the center can have a bitter taste , and many chefs prefer to remove them . If the taste and color do n't bother you , it will not cause problems for the dish . The brown end tends to a have a harder consistency than the rest of the clove , so may cause a problem depending on how you cook the garlic . If you 're cooking it in a manner that leads to a very soft and mushy piece of garlic , you 'd be better off discarding it . ( Boiling in soup , for example . ) It probably would not make much of a difference if you were browning the garlic for a topping .
Store them unwashed . Take out any " bad " ones . I 've had decent luck adding some paper towels to wick away extra moisture that seems to speed up the spoilage . <URL> . I have no idea who keeps a fridge empty enough that they can store full sheet pans in there , though . I 've never tried this , but <URL> . * shrug * Then of course , wash and freeze them spread out on a sheet pan ( to make it easier to separate later ) . I assume this is n't what you want to do , but it is very effective , depending on how you plan to use them .
They would be fresh hams , the hindquarter of a pig . The word ham , unmodified , implies a cured product . I would imagine that for a feral hog , if you are willing to risk eating it , that you should cook to the highest temperature reasonable , which in the case of a fresh ham might be at least 180 F , and as high as 200 F . The best application at these ranges would be making puiled pork , which requires long , low , and slow cooking ; smoking is definitely an option . See also <URL> , although for a pork butt , should be easily adaptable to the fresh ham , which is similar , although not quite as fatty and full of connective tissue , so it wo n't be quite as tender when done .
In the US , hamburgers are usually flat patties weighing somewhere between 3 and 8oz . and typically 100 % ground beef . Many variations are possible , including mixing spices and other ingredients into the meat , but binders such as egg and breadcrumbs are not common . The defining characteristics of a proper hamburger for most Americans are the shape ( flat ) , approximate size , beef as the primary ingredient , and sandwich-style presentation . A ground meat patty not made from beef is likely to be named differently ( lamb burger , turkey burger , etc. , even though the name ' hamburger ' has nothing to do with ham ) . Meatballs are smaller ( maybe 0.5 to 3oz ) , roughly spherical , more likely to be seasoned , much more likely to contain eggs and/or breadcrumbs as binders , made from just about any kind of meat , cooked differently , served differently . Also , the cultural traditions surrounding each are completely different . Spaghetti with meatballs and tomato sauce is classic comfort food ; spaghetti with hamburger is unthinkable . Meatballs are usually served in a sauce of some kind ; burgers ( beef or otherwise ) are served on a bun or bread with mayo , ketchup , mustard , melted cheese , lettuce , tomato , and so on . Many people like their hamburgers ( beef ) cooked rare or medium rare , but meatballs are always fully cooked . Meatballs can be held at temperature for a long time , or even cooked , chilled , and reheated ; only cafeterias and other low-quality , high volume restaurants would pre-cook and reheat a hamburger -- at home or at a good restaurant the burger would be served as soon as possible after cooking .
The biggest concern with fish caught in the wild is the presence of parasites . You 'll have to look up which species of parasite are present in the species of fish that you wish to use , and treat it accordingly . Tapeworm is common in salmon , and several other varieties of fish have various parasites capable of infecting a human host . Most sites I 've seen suggest that you need to freeze the fish at -4 degrees Fahrenheit ( -20 Celcius ) or colder for 7 days or -31 Fahrenheit ( -35 Celcius ) for 15 hours to guarantee any parasites are dead . Many home freezers may have difficulty keeping temperatures this low . Also the freezing process , if done in a home freezer , has a good chance of ruining the taste and the texture of the meat . You may want to look into flash freezing methods to avoid this . Supposedly there are certain species of fish that do not have any parasites , or at least no parasites capable of infecting humans . You will want to do your own research on this to be certain . Beyond parasites bacteria are the other biggest concern . Make sure you put the fish into a cooler immediately , and freeze it as soon as you return home . Sources : <URL> <URL>
I explained several of the differences in my answer to <URL> and also discussed some issues relating to salt consistency in a much earlier answer to <URL> . To make a long story short , kashering is a long process with many steps , but the part you 're concerned with is similar to the " dry brining " technique some people are fond of using for Thanksgiving turkeys . The meat is salted directly - no water is used - and it is left to rest for a much shorter period , about 1 hour , before finally being rinsed and packed . Kosher meat is n't " juicy " like brined meat at all ; in fact , all other things being equal , it will come out much drier and tougher than unkosher meat , because in the process of drawing out blood ( the reason for salting in kashering ) , a good deal of moisture is drawn out as well . Brining adds moisture to the tune of about 10 % ; kashering takes moisture away by a similar amount . Aside from drying out , the only culinary differences you 'll find with kosher birds ( or other meat ) are ( a ) less blood , uric acid , and other " undesirable " components , and ( b ) they are naturally saltier than unkosher birds . However , because the kashering process has nothing to do with flavouring , you ca n't expect any kind of consistency , and it 's not uncommon to find that some parts are much saltier than other parts coming from the same bird . Kosher birds are going to absorb roughly the same amount of salt and water from a brine . The difference is that because they 've already been salted , you run the risk of over-brining to the point of being inedibly salty . That 's the whole story . If you want flavourful and moist then get a regular bird and brine it . If you care more about flavour and want to save some time ( at a significant cost premium ) then go ahead and use a kosher bird , no brine . You can brine a kosher bird ( see first link in this answer ) but you 're going to have to do a little experimenting to get it right - and if you 're going to brine anyway , then why bother spending the extra money on kosher meat ? Do n't pay any mind to the oft-repeated claims that kosher birds are " pre-brined " or similar nonsense . The inherent saltiness of a kosher bird is significant but also incidental and thus inherently unreliable . ( Please also note : Assuming this is a follow-up to your previous question , none of this is going to make the slightest bit of difference if you 're just going to plop the chicken parts into a pot of boiling or poaching water . If you 're making broth , then you flavour the broth , not the meat . )
Whether or not it 's a good idea is subjective , but the Chinese seem to break that rule a lot ! For example , Northeastern Chinese sweet and sour pork ( guō bāo ròu ) is <URL> . The Sichuan classic twice cooked pork ( huí guō ròu ) calls for boiling the pork with ginger . A <URL> condiment for beef dishes/sauces is <URL> . Perhaps this saying is associated with a specific Chinese regional cuisine ?
I ca n't give a specific temperature , as there 's issues : The sharpness is a chemical reaction which mix when the garlic cells are damaged . Cooking the garlic before damaging the cells will convert the chemicals before they 've had a chance to react . Cooking the garlic after the chemical reaction will also remove the sharpness . I 've never tried taking the temperature of garlic as it 's cooking Now , if you 're cooking the garlic cloves ahead of time ( I roast a couple of bulbs at a time , then squeeze out the cloves into small jar and keep it in the fridge ) . It 'll take 30min to an hour , depending on what temperature you 're roasting at ( 350-400F ; I 'll throw it in with something else ... not worth heating the oven just for garlic ) If cooking after you 've cut it , it 'll only take a quick saute as you have more surface area ( maybe 1 to 2 min , depending on pan temp ) -- but be careful , as overcooking garlic will burn it , which is just nasty . And do n't do it in a dry pan , unless you 're planning on ruining your dinner . When it 's golden , you 're done ... do n't let it get to brown , as brown is that stage right before black and time to clean the pan before starting again . Also , it seems counter-intuitive , but finely minced garlic is more potent than coarsely chopped garlic , as you 're doing more damage to the garlic . It wo n't help in this particular case , but in many dishes that just want the garlic flavor without being overpowering will use more garlic , but slice it rather than mincing , saute it in olive oil , then remove the garlic pieces , and use the garlic-infused oil for the dish . ... So , anyway , not not exactly answer the questions ... I 'd go with low and slow cooking ... specific temperatures are going to lead to fast cooking garlic , which gets you burnt garlic and ruined dishes . In dishes where you can , infuse the oil , then remove the garlic . And if you really have to , there 's always garlic powder .
It seems that temperatures in excess of 250 ° F for an extended period of time will destroy a significant percentage of the botulism spores but I can not find a definitive , science based answer on botulism spore death . <URL> when stored in vinegar , so I would assume the pH will not carry enough weight . As long as it 's in the refrigerator , you 've got a few days , at least . How much are you making at one time ? You can <URL> and keep it for months that way . Googling suggests that freezing peppers in oil is a common technique , too , so you should be able to store the entire thing in the freezer for months . You could make a large batch and freeze them in ready-to-use portions and be confident that your food is safe .
Yes , it is different . Two things happen : the dissolved oxygen boils out , and whatever mineral solids are in there become concentrated as steam evaporates .
That is wax , it 's done to help keep the moisture in the root . Turnips are also . You know it 's getting along when it gets soft and spongy or when the skin starts to wrinkle , same with turnips , beets , parsnips , carrots ... You pretty much can tell whether they are good or not in exactly the same ways . Are the firm and crisp or soft , flabby and spongy ?
There are many reasons for having a blender with selectable speeds : 1 ) Not every time you want to liquify or make a mush of your food ; quite the opposite , usually you want to keep a bit of texture into what you are blending . Thus , lower speed is better . 2 ) Blending heat up your ingredients , either by the friction of the blades and by the heating of the blender engine itself . Now , while it 's pretty difficult to ruin oils or many other things with the blender temperature , vegetables and fruits on the other hand are really sensible . So , as a generic rule of thumb , you always want to start with the lowest speed and then raise it up step by step ( my blender used to have 5 speed settings , for examples ) just as necessary . No point in running the blender at max speed by default . 3 ) The blender 's engine is built to blend things , and as obvious as it may sounds is maybe less obvious that the engine is not expected to runs free blending the air , because it can quickly burn and ruin itself : it actually needs ( and expect ) some kind of resistance from the food it 's blending . So , when you blend big and/or hard things , it 's advisable to do some on/first ( this is the reason for the pulse mode ) , then raise the speed , to not overheat the blender and to not give the blades too much energy . For example , if you are blending chickpeas , as they are pretty heavy and big if you go immediately at the highest speed all you will get will be chickpeas being hitten by the blades and just bouncing all around . If you lower the speed , the impact between the blades and the chickpeas will be less energic and the blades will have a chance to at least begin to scratch them ;-)
It depends on how they are dried . Though if they 're properly dehydrated or freeze-dried then you 're just rehydrating them in the tea and they 'll taste ok . Ginger : I prefer fresh ginger and find that there are some taste notes that are n't present in the dried tea , it makes more pleasant with fresh ginger , but it 's more work . Chili : While I have n't tried fresh chili in tea , I 'd imagine dried would work better and you would n't get interference from oils in the chili . Also maybe easier to control the amount .
The smell of garlic is due to sulfur compounds . When you rub your hands against stainless steel , the iron of the stainless steel will react with some small volume of those compounds , but much more will remain in your hands . Rubbing your hands against an iron object <URL> . The sulfur smell compounds are water soluble to slightly water soluble , so rinsing your hands in cold water and then soap and water should work as well as the recipes suggesting Noxzema , lemon juice , salt , baking soda , raw potatoes , tomato paste solutions , or mouthwash .
I am afraid that it is quite hard to prepare it yourself . And you do n't start from phylo dough . Kataifi is not shredded , it is spun . You need a hot metal wheel for that . It is made from a batter which is thrown on the wheel , and because the wheel is spun , it bakes on the wheel in threads . You need not only the instruments ( this wheel ) , but also quite a bit of experience to throw it in even threads . Kataifi makers are a popular attraction on middle-eastern markets . If you ca n't visit one , you have to visit an ethnic grocery store to buy the prepared kataifi noodles .
If <URL> is to be trusted ( and in this case , their source is the <URL> ) , there is in fact a toxin in some raw beans , such as kidney beans . The toxic compound phytohaemagglutinin , a lectin , is present in many common bean varieties , but is especially concentrated in red kidney beans . White kidney beans contain about a third as much toxin as the red variety ; broad beans ( Vicia faba ) contain 5 to 10 % as much as red kidney beans . <URL> Phytohaemagglutinin can be deactivated by boiling beans for ten minutes ; the ten minutes at boiling point ( 100 ° C ( 212 ° F ) ) are sufficient to degrade the toxin , but not to cook the beans . For dry beans , the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) also recommends an initial soak of at least 5 hours in water , which should then be discarded . <URL> During the pressure-canning process beans undergo ( they are fully cooked in the can ) , the toxin is certainly deactivated . Canned beans are ready to eat , even cold , although they probably taste better hot , and with some flavor from a sauce or accompanying dish . The danger would be in slow-cooking dry beans of this variety , which have never been previously cooked .
From my experience and what I 've seen , garlic cloves are often applied to soup in un-chopped glove . Overtime , the boiling will release the garlic 's sweet to the soup without melting itself into the liquid or dissolving into tidbits that attached to the ingredients . I have also seen people pan fry the garlic gloves to golden brown before dumping them into the water . I believe the purpose is to harden the outside of the garlic while getting more exotic flavor out of it . Otherwise , I would chop/dice/smash garlic for dips and frying .
You could do both . Fresh , you already know . If it is smoked , sautee in a little oil , then remove . The oil took on the flavor , so then you can add back the sausage at the end .
According to one farm ( <URL> ) , theirs lasts 7 weeks from the packaging date , and has a " best by " date on it . I doubt this is identical for all sources , but it seems like a decent baseline . As for botulism , I 'm pretty sure what you 've heard was related to keeping peeled garlic unrefrigerated in olive oil , which used to be a common practice , and is dangerous . Here 's the <URL> on the incident that started it , and <URL> has more info on safe handling practices . From my experience , it 'll start to turn slimy and lose its texture and flavor near the end of its shelf life , and you wo n't want to keep using it . But as for health risks , you do n't have much to worry about as long as you 're keeping it in the fridge .
end question
start question
Clean an entire fish before or after storing in a freezer ?
Yes the fish should be cleaned and prepared before being frozen . Reference : <URL>
It was called <URL> , and indeed the ancient Romans used it , as did the ancient Greeks : Garum was prepared from the intestines of small fishes through the process of bacterial fermentation . Fishermen would lay out their catch according to the type and part of the fish , allowing makers to pick the exact ingredients they wanted . The fish parts were then macerated in salt , and cured in the sun for one to three months . The mixture fermented and liquified in the dry warmth , with the salt inhibiting the common agents of decay . Garum was the clear liquid that formed on the top , drawn off by means of a fine strainer inserted into the fermenting vessel . The sediment or sludge that remained was allec . Concentrated decoctions of aromatic herbs might be added . Flavors would vary according to the locale , with ingredients sometimes from in-house gardens . Like the fish sauce of today , it was extremely high in glutamic acid , AKA umami . In <URL> the author says : There appears to be no historical mention of fish sauce being used in Asia before the Early Middle Ages in Europe , which oddly enough is around the same time its use was dwindling in the remnants of the Roman Empire . That begs a question , right ? Did the concept travel , or did Asians develop it independently ? Greater minds than mine are working to definitively answer that question : ... flowed from west to east and was eagerly adopted by Asians on the Silk Road . The recipes for garum changed and adapted as they moved east and became nuoc mam and nam pla according to cultural preferences and what gifts the Asian seas had to offer . Archaeologists and food scientists are working to confirm these flows and linkages ... The production of garum and Asian fish sauce is virtually the same as well . Fresh fish and salt in some proportion ( recipes vary widely from 5:1 to 2:1 ) are layered in barrels , clay pits or earthenware crocks . Because of their large size , tuna were cut up before fermenting to prevent putrefaction , but most fish -- especially the small species are processed whole and intact . In Rome , oregano and other herbs were added at the production phase for both flavor and to suppress bacterial overgrowth , but this step is largely omitted in the production of Asian sauces . The vats are then left to ferment -- sometimes covered or sometimes uncovered ( Carthaginian and Roman ) in the heat and stirred every few days to a week to ensure even enzymatic digestion of the fish . From <URL>
This is going to depend on how long you want to keep it for . If you 're serving it soon ( say , same day , maybe next ) , then do n't refrigerate it at all , though some people seem to think it gives better flavor to refrigerate overnight . If you 've used e.g. , buttercream frosting , you 'll need to refrigerate or freeze it , unless you 're serving immediately after frosting . Some fillings may also require refrigeration . If you 're storing short term , up to maybe a week , refrigerate it . If you 're going to be storing it long-term ( more than a few days , up to three months ) , you 'll need to tightly wrap it once its cooled , and freeze it . After more than 3 -- 4 months , flavor will be lost , but it 'll still be safe to eat , as long as its stayed at 0 ° F / -17 ° C or below .
Assuming you 're using spices which are all dried and ground , there should be no problem . In the middle-east , there are always several spice mixtures available in shops . The most famous of which are Ras-al-Hanout and Baharat . These are spice mixtures sold as pre-mixed combinations by the shopkeeper , who is usually the one who grinds the spices .
You can certainly cut meat on these , I have a large end-grain cutting board that is too large to wash conveniently in my sink . There are a number of methods to clean them : Soap and Water Soap and hot water are best for regular cleaning . Just get a rag or brush and scrub it . Dish soap is just fine for this use . Make sure to rinse and dry it thoroughly . Vinegar If you do n't mind the smell you can use undiluted white vinegar to clean and sanitize your surface . If you keep some in a spray bottle you can just spray it down and wipe it with a paper towel . If you have a big oily mess , I 'd suggest starting with the soap &amp; water method , and finishing up with vinegar . Vinegar is apparently <URL> at killing microbes , surprisingly more effective than harsher quaternary ammonium solutions . Bleach A little goes a long way with this . You only need a teaspoon or two for a quart of water . Just spray it down thoroughly , let stand 5 minutes . Finish with rinsing and drying . Like vinegar this is best as a followup to soap &amp; water for a really messy board . Lemon If you have strong garlic , onion , fish , or other smells in your butcher block you can cut a lemon in half and rub the board down with the halves . Lemon juice is a weak antiseptic , so this should be used primarily for odor control and not as a sanitization substitute . Note that regular cleaning also requires regular seasoning of your block surface . You should oil your board/block once a week , or more with frequent use . See also : <URL>
That depends on how large your oven is . I certainly could n't do 6 whole fish in mine , but then I have a 24 " wide oven . If you have a 36 " , it would be completely possible ( these are standard US sizes ; no idea what the equivalent would be in other countries ) . Your main adjustment will be dealing with the extra mass to be heated by the additional fish , which will cause the oven to take some additional time to reheat . Again , this depends on how hot ( BTU ) your oven is ; a hot oven would overcome the extra mass in a few minutes , but an underpowered ( for this purpose , anyway ) oven might take an additional 15 or more minutes , which would not be good for the texture of the fish . So , It Depends . If you have a fairly powerful , large , high-end stove , I 'd be ready to flip them at 10 minutes . Less powerful ovens will take longer . Also , if the fish are individually closer together than 1 " , you 'll have the issue that the edges of each fish will be soggy from the moisture of the fish next to it , and they wo n't get good texture . If they 're touching even slightly , they will stick together . You 'll also want to try to ensure some drainage in the pan , lest all of the liquid runoff collect under one fish and make it slimy .
Bleach is your best bet . Scrub it with a long-handled scrub brush and either liquid bleach or Ajax and water . Let it soak a bit before rinsing it out . Since it 's stainless steel , the bleach wo n't do it any harm and will kill off any organics growing on it . In my experience , the pink stuff is a mold , not flouride .
I 'd seriously doubt it going bad in 5 days if your fridge is set to a proper temperature and it was prepared with some semblance of proper sanitation . A vat of the stuff taken out of the fridge for serving 4 times , yes . An individual serving stored in the fridge the whole time , I doubt . The pasta texture will get weird from freezing/thawing . Should not actually affect the flavor if it 's properly sealed . You may or may not find the texture change acceptable . Your wife may or may not agree with you . As usual , experimentation will be your best guide as to whether you find it acceptable or not , so freeze one and do n't freeze one and compare the two when you eat them .
The site that has the best information I 've found in regards to competitive cooking is <URL> . They do n't quite meet all your criteria in terms of searchability , but they do some levels of sorting and provide a wealth of information on the contests they list ( which are quite numerous ) .
The fridge itself does storing , cooling , and dehydrating . But the last part is rather slow , you do n't see the effect all that much . It is more prominent at low temperatures ( manifests as freezer burn ) . But try leaving unwrapped bacon slices in the regular fridge and you 'll see what I mean . But anyway , it is n't all that interesting what the fridge does , because we only use it for cooling . The interesting things happen in whatever you put into the fridge . The explanation will be somewhat long even without details . The dishes you described have different reasons to need cooling , so I have to deal with them separately . First , egg whites . Stiffly beaten egg whites tend to weep . Cooling them slows the process . You know , less Brownian motion , etc. . Still , overbeating them is never a good idea :) In this case , there are no fat particles responsible for the foam stability ; in fact , the smallest amount of fat can disrupt the building of egg white foam . The second class are the dishes which contain lots of saturated fat . They are made with ( raw ) cream , chocolate , butter , or other such stuff . Saturated fat is an amorphous solid , it has no sharp melting point . It gets very soft before it melts , butter is a good example . So these things are kept at fridge temperatures . If they are left to warm again to room temperature , they become much softer than in the fridge . ( The exception which gets softer than in the fridge , but not all the way to the state before cooling , is ganache . This is because cocoa contains starch , which thickens . See the part about gelling below ) . Third , we have custards . Panna cotta is a good example . They set by way of denaturing egg proteins . This happens at around 85 ° C , on the stove . They are put into the fridge to get colder , because they taste better that way . They do n't get firmer in there , and they wo n't melt if taken out of the fridge . Then we have the hydrocolloids , or gelling agents . While technically starch gels in a different way than gums , I 'll put them together here . The important point is to know if they are thermoreversible . Starch is n't thermoreversible . If you create a blanchmange thick enough to stay on its own out of the mold , it will need to be cooled before it is set completely . But once set , it wo n't go fluid again at high temperatures . Gelatin , on the other hand , is thermoreversible . It needs to be heated before it will dissolve at all , but then it must be cooled to set again . If you make jello and keep it outside of the fridge , it wo n't be much softer than in the fridge . But if you heat it up all the way to 50 ° C , it will melt to liquid again . Then there are the even funnier ones which will harden at high temperatures and soften at low temperatures , etc. . But mainly , you do n't have to keep hydrocolloid gels cooled once they are set . In fact , they do n't even need fridge temperatures to set . Gelatine is perfectly happy to gel at summer room temperatures . But the cooling takes much longer because of the smaller heat difference between liquid and air . So it sets quick in the fridge , but has to be left overnight in order to work at room temp . As for the practical meaning of all this : you can keep most stuff outside without a texture problem . The exception of this rule is anything made with saturated fat : cream , chocolate , pastry dough , buttercream frosting . But it is common knowledge that these should be kept cool anyway .
Either would be safe . You will get better quality by freezing them uncooked . They should not get soggy due to the freezing , as neither the meat filling , nor the wrappers , are particularly subject to ice crystal damage . Gyoza are very small , so you should not need to thaw them : just begin the steaming phase right out of the freezer , and they will thaw while cooking . If you do wish to thaw them , do it in the refrigerator and they will be perfectly safe , despite the raw filling . You are correct that if you freeze them after cooking , you will loose the crispy bottoms -- this would be true if you save them as left overs in the refrigerator as well .
Let 's assume you just want a little flavor added to a potato salad without too much texture . After swirling the stalks under water and shaking off excess drops , pat with kitchen paper or cloth ( does n't bruise easily ) . Pluck off small clumps of the hairy leaves from the tougher stalk ; this is completely subjective as to how much stalk needs to be eliminated . Chop . The more stalk is removed , the courser/longer the chopping in general is -- up to a cm long . Also , the more dill is added to recipe , the finer it should be chopped ( avoid the feeling of eating grass ) . if a good deal is used , then stir into the mayonnaise first ; if it is just of a garnish quantity , then sprinkle on top of mixed pot salad .
This <URL> shows the technique very clearly . Place place the filet skin side down . Grasp the tail end , and slip your thin , flexible knife into the filet by the tail end , scraping against the skin , cutting down the length of the fish . Turn the fish over , and inspect . If any pieces remain , removing them is similar to removing the silverskin from a pork or beef tenderloin . Slip your knife under the end of the remnant , pulling the blade up against the skin and cutting down its length to remove . I recommend watching this video or others , because the technique is easier to see than understand from a written description .
Put the pesto in just as the sauce is done and as you 're taking it off the heat . Generally , pesto does not benefit at all from cooking . By adding it to the sauce just as it is being pulled from the heat , it 's temp will equalize with the sauce , without being cooked . Are you planning to serve this over pasta ? If so , drain the pasta ( save some of the pasta water ) while the pasta is still quite al-dente . Simmer and stir the pasta in the sauce for a minute or so . If it needs a bit of thinning out , add reserved pasta water . Only when it feels about ready to serve , add the pesto , again just as you remove it all from the heat . If you are planning on cooking the pasta for a while in the sauce , as in soup , I encourage you to reconsider . I recommend that you make the sauce awesome . When the sauce just seems right , boil your pasta until al-dente ( do n't forget to salt ) . Add the pasta to the sauce , slowly , not too much , not too little . Use the reserved pasta water to get just the right consistency . Let it all simmer for a minute or two , let the pasta soak up the flavor . THEN , when it all looks great , add the pesto , stir , turn off the heat , and serve .
No , it 's not unusual at all . See <URL> for examples where nuoc-mam is used to marinate chicken , or just type nuoc mam marinade in Google :) There are a lot of examples , including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or even <URL> marinated ( as well as <URL> , of course ) with nuoc-mam ( and most of the time lemongrass ) , and a fair share of them are recipes by ' natives ' from South-East Asia , not only fusion food addicts ( even if <URL> ! ) . Some salads like goi tom or goi ga also involve nuoc mam marinade .
You can use a solution of vinegar and water to descale your kettle ( unless , as hobodave mentioned , the manufacturer advises against using vinegar ) . Fill your kettle with water until it 's half full ; add about 1/2 cup of vinegar to the water , and then allow it to boil for about 10 minutes . Allow the water to cool and unplug your kettle . Gently scrub away the scale with a non-metallic pad ( do n't scrub the heating element if it 's exposed ; wipe that with a sponge ) . Rinse your kettle several times after removing the scale , and then boil one or two fillings of water in it to ensure that you remove all traces of the vinegar .
It would certainly be safe . Vermouth is a fortified wine , meaning that it is wine with added alcohol . The added alcohol gives the vermouth a much longer shelf life , even at room temperature after the bottle is opened . You can store open vermouth for at least several months without any discernible loss of quality . It will continue to be safe indefinitely as long as the bottle is kept closed , keeping the alcohol from evaporating . That said , I can see no reason why two vermouths could n't be mixed in advance . As a matter of fact , you could add the bourbon too . Perhaps some kind of alcohol super-taster could tell the difference , but I sincerely doubt that any mere mortal would be able to tell the difference between a just-mixed Manhattan and one that was mixed 3 months ago ( assuming , of course , an airtight container ) .
Depending on the type of honing rod and the technique you use for honing , you will remove more or less metal from the blade . You can confirm whether your rod removes metal by wiping the blade on a white tea cloth after honing . If you see a grey residue on the cloth then metal has been removed and you can decide yourself whether you want that in your food . Types of Honing Rod Steel rods , of the type that are perfectly smooth will not remove noticeable amounts of steel from a blade . Polished honing rods are used for straightening a curled blade edge . Other types have shallow grooves cut down the length of the rod that bite into the blade and shave off metal particles . Ceramic rods are slightly abrasive and will remove small amounts of metal . Diamond coated rods are used for sharpening in place of a whetstone and will remove relatively large amounts of metal . What technique you use for honing depends on what you are trying to achieve . If you only need to realign the edge of a well maintained knife , then two or three swipes on both sides of the blade , maintaining light pressure should be sufficient . If you do this with a polished steel , then I would be surprised if you need to wipe the blade afterwards . If you use one of the other types of rod , then you are also removing metal from your knife and you may want to strop the knife and give it a quick wipe after .
It causes the pepper to steam a bit , making it easier to remove the charred skin . ( resting might also be a factor ... I 've never done a side-by-side comparison of covered vs. uncovered )
The machine should not be accumulating bits of dough ... it should be designed so that any stray crumbs of dough naturally fall out of it . This is true of mine ( Kitchen Aid Pasta Roller attachement ) an I merely use a stiff dry brush to clean off the bits of dough which stick to the outside . If the pasta maker is metal , you definitely do not want to use water , as the instructions say . You will never be able to dry it properly and it will rust . If it 's an inexpensive pasta maker , I would suggest trying a different brand . If it 's an expensive one , I would contact the manufacturer . Otherwise , canned compressed air as the two commentors above suggest is worth a try . FWIW , I would n't worry about the egg in the pasta dough becoming toxic . However , I would worry about the dirty pasta maker attracting bugs .
end question
start question
How do I prevent salmon sticking to the BBQ grill ?
If you do n't fancy cooking in aluminium foil ( kind of takes the point away ) , you need to make sure you have a super clean , extremely hot grill . Why ? Clean ( No tasty burnt fat from the burgers ) , flesh sticks like #### to a blanket . You can get away with it when cooking steaks because they are just so much stronger . So get a wire brush and clean an area for fish cooking and keep it clean :) . Hot , as hot as you can pretty much . You want the second that Salmon ( or other fish ) hits the grill for it to blacken . It 'll help make sure the flesh is no longer ' fleshy ' and again less likely to stick . Do n't try lifting it till ' you know that underside is like a pink and black Zebra on it 's underside ( 3-4 min ) . When it does come to lifting you could really do with a nice sharp fish slice , not a blunt fat ended egg slice . Good luck .
Rust , or iron oxide , is not poisonous , unless consumed in large amounts . Thus it is relatively safe to grill on your barbeque . What about the people who get cut by rusty nails and get lockjaw ? That 's not due to the rust , but rather , due to the bacteria on the rust , which is called , <URL> , which is found in the soil , and presumably , the nails have had come in contact with the soil , and so actually contains some of these deadly bacteria , and so , when a wound is made by the sharp object , the sharp object ( nail ) will also infect the wound causing tetanus , or lockjaw . Which is totally irrelevant to your grill , as I assume , it has n't actually come in contact with the soil has it ? So , it 's safe , relatively
Given that the frying of a cube of bread is a test for oil temperature , I suspect one or both of two things are happening here - 1 The oil is not at the correct temperature when the cubes of bread are dropped in it ; and 2 The oil temperature drops when you add too many cubes in at the same time so some get burnt and some end up soggy for the single time duration you 're cooking them for . Suggested solutions - 1 Ensure the oil is at the correct temperature for the level of browness you want the cubes of bread to be fried to . 2 Do n't over-crowd the pan . Fry them in batches , ensuring the oil temperature rises back to the correct one before the next batch is fried .
There are a couple of things you can do to prevent sugar crystallising . You can add some glucose syrup , or you can ' invert ' the sugar by adding some acid , namely cream of tartar . Both should be readily available , online if not at your supermarket . Cream of tartar is also useful when making meringue .
Depending on where you live , there is a pretty simple approach you can try . In the next few days , head out to places that specialize in particular kinds of foods and in making them appeal to you . A farmer 's market , a butcher 's , a cheese shop , a bakery , etc. . Chat with the staff and buy whatever speaks to you in the store . When you come home , make whatever meals you feel inspired to make according to what you 've bought . Be creative and impulsive and seasonal . Keep doing that until one day you notice there is n't any food , and either go out and shop or eat something canned and go to shop the next day . In probably a week 's time , one of two things will happen . Either you will be feeling free , creative , inspired etc and so happy you are doing things this new way , or you will have thrown out a lot of expensive food that spoiled before you could use it , and be feeling very stressed and unhappy at 4 or 5 pm each day because you have to figure out what to make . If it 's the former , mission accomplished . If it 's the latter , you now have your motivation for the planning and the list making , and should find it more pleasant since you know its purpose and what it is saving you from . Either way , the " I hate having to plan my meals " feeling should diminish drastically .
As SAJ14SAJ said , the best solution is to simply not live in a place like that - it can be a bit dangerous . But since you 're there , about the only thing you can do is get a decent fan and use it to direct air out of the kitchen toward rooms with open windows . Depending on the layout ( and the fans ) you may need multiple fans , and might want one of them to be a box fan in the window helping push air out . For things you think may be smoky , you might also consider cooking outside if possible , on a hot plate , a camping stove , or a small grill . ( Or you could just not do them at all . )
My mother came up with a simple solution - add a capful of oil ( she recommended corn oil ) to the rice recipe . This time around the rice scooped right out perfectly .
No , not really exposure is sort of the key in any method of light , and/or heavy , and/or cold , and/or hot , and/or direct , and/or indirect smoking or smoking in general . This holds true for charcoal grilling as well .
The easiest solution is to use different cheeses . Most commercial pizzerias , like Domino 's or Pizza Hut do not use expensive cheeses like Parmesean or fresh mozzerella ... they use crappy cheese designed to be stretchy and to stay that way when warm instead of hot . In general , they use part-skim mozzarella , which is often sold pre-shredded and in hard blocks like you 'd find cheddars . This is addressed in another answer , <URL> . Hard cheeses like Parmesan are unlikely to melt at all and , when they do , they will firm up quickly as they lose heat . You should rarely expect a hard cheese to melt well . Most of them do n't . They also lose a lot of oils when they melt , causing unsightly separation . They 're great for a burst of salty cheese flavor but they wo n't behave like Domino 's cheese . This is why it 's common to top a completed pizza with shredded Parmesan but you would n't want to use it as your primary base cheese for the unbaked pizza . Fresh cheeses like ricotta and mozzarella have the opposite problem . Their high moisture content will often make pizza unappetizingly <URL> . In contrast , the part skim mozzarella used in pizzerias is specifically chosen because it has low water content . Check out the two questions linked here for a ton more info . You should consider doing some research into which <URL> as opposed that separate into an gross mess . Note , this list , like many others includes Asiago but it 's important to notice that the list refers specifically to fresh Asiago , not the Parmesan-like aged sibling .
I do n't endorse beef in the microwave , but that said , the best possible way to cook it is going to be on one of the microwave plates that raise your food off the plate . ( the ones that look like the inside of a george foreman grill ) You are going to have to play with your power settings a bit to achieve a optimium patty . In mine , it 's 2:30 at 40 percent power and 1:30 at full power but depending on wattage , your particular times are going to vary . The trick to having an edible patty come out of the microwave is use low power to achieve the desired temp and then hit it at full power to get the outside done . It will always produce a slimy-er patty than cooking it on a stovetop or in an oven . Make sure that you cover the patty during cooking as it is going to spatter like crazy . You do n't want to clean that mess up . If you have access to a toaster oven , you can cook a patty in that in about 15 minutes and you will have a much closer to delicious product .
I recommend <URL> I have it and use it every week to make lemonade : It 's absolutely delicious . It 's all I drink , no more soda . Last week I made cherry juice . De-pitted the cherries and repeted the same steps as above . I 've also made carrot and beet juice , but they test very strong and work better when you mix them with other juices - orange juice for example . My experience with juicing grapefruit is not good . The juice comes out very bitter and tastes very strong . In general , to reduce the bitterness in citrus juices , peel the fruit first before adding it to the juicer . As in the lemonade example , I sometimes use the lemon peels to make <URL> , or keep a few in the fridge to garnish my coffee . If you have no use for them , they will at least make your garbage smell very good . Maintenance You need to clean the juicer after each use , which can be discouraging . If you have someone who lives with you , have them help . My husband peels and juices the lemons , I wash the juicer parts while he mixes the lemonade in the pitcher . It takes us about 15 minutes from start to finish . Experiment You can throw anything in the juicer as long as you remove large pits and cut it to a size that fits the opening . It will fit a whole lemon but you need to halve an apple . The juicer - at least the model I have - also comes with a recipe book . Not that I ever used it . I just use whatever I have left over and try to make something tasty .
A Southerner will probably tell you that there is no type of BBQ sauce to go with this type of pulled pork because it 's not actually real pulled pork ... or real BBQ . Authentic pulled pork is smoked , and that comes with a completely different set of pairings . This is technically just braised , shredded pork . Which is not meant as a criticism , mind you - I often make a similar recipe in the winter time using a dutch oven . But terminology is important here because there 's a huge difference in flavour between pulled pork and braised pork . I 'll note for the record that any kind of slow-cooking will make a pork shoulder fall right apart ; you do not need the root beer ( which is n't that acidic anyway , and <URL> ) to tenderize the pork . The heat and moisture do that all by themselves , although root beer is as good a choice as any if you 're braising . Now onto the flavouring . Because the braise , unlike smoke , only minimally flavours the meat , you 're going to need strong flavours from elsewhere . If you 're really trying to mimic an authentic Southern-style pulled pork then you need to incorporate the smoky flavour somehow , which means using a smoky BBQ sauce ( hickory is common ) or better yet , incorporate this flavour at the very beginning of the cooking process by applying a dry rub containing smoked paprika or including a small amount of liquid smoke in the braise . If you do use a rub then the other flavours are up to you - there are plenty of recipes out there - just do n't use salt in it because pork already has plenty . As with any braise , stick to aromatics like garlic/onion powder , various chili powders/peppers , cinnamon , etc. . Once you 've successfully incorporated the smoke ( or what passes for smoke in indoor cooking ) then a little sauce goes a long way . Definitely incorporate some of the leftover braising liquid so as not to waste those delicious drippings - I use about half of it but that 's with a much milder braise . Ketchup and dijon mustard in a 50/50 to 60/40 ratio is very simple and surprisingly effective when mixed in with the juices . If you still find this to be lacking punch , you can throw in some cider vinegar , which pairs well with both the pork shoulder and your root beer braise . I actually boil off the pan ( after reserving some braising liquid ) and use cider vinegar as a deglazer for the fond , but since you 're using a crock pot ( or equivalent ) , you probably wo n't have much/any fond and this would require an extra vessel , so ... just throw a splash or two into the finished sauce , and reduce if that makes it a bit watery . Worcestershire sauce is also a good way to punch up any homemade sauce , and if it starts to get too intense or tangy from either that or the vinegar , tone it down with some brown sugar or molasses if you have any . If you 're dead-set on following the recipe to the letter , then , as above , I think I 'd choose a hickory or mesquite sauce , something smoky and not overly thick . Some of the better brands/products will actually include a small amount of alcohol , like whisky or bourbon . Almost all will contain onion , garlic , paprika , sugar , molasses , and vinegar ( often cider vinegar , as above ) - not surprisingly , exactly the same kinds of ingredients as I 'm suggesting in the dry rub and homemade sauce .
More liquid will dilute the okra 's thickening tendency . But then your dish will be more liquid than perhaps you want . You could perhaps cook the okra separately and add it right before serving . Editing to add : your other option is to skip me .
For the beef , I would recommend rib-eye . A traditional Philly cheese steak uses thinly-sliced rib-eye , so it 's time tested . Other than that , I bet sirloin would do well with quick , hot cooking . It does n't have much fat or connective tissue , so you do n't have to worry about melting anything before it becomes tender .
To make a perfect burger in the kitchen , a hot cast-iron skillet is your best friend . To keep from making a mess , use one of these : That 's a <URL> . It allows air to move freely , but keeps grease in the pan and off of your walls . EDIT : In comments , Cindy Askew recommended the above plus using the cheapest available aluminum foil to protect surrounding areas from the grease and noted that the aluminum foil used in that way can continue to be useful as a disposable spoon/utensil rest . In a sense , this answer being accepted encompasses that comment as a part of this answer .
You can save yourself the waste of making double , while preventing cross-contamination , by using one hand ( clean ) to scoop and sprinkle , and one hand ( dirty ) to direct the spice falling , pat/tamp , and rub the spices . Typically I begin by applying a " glue " ( previously I have used honey and mustard , once I was vegan I went with just mustard ; both worked well on smoker ) to the cut of meat or vegetable before smoking or bbq . I follow applying the glue by washing my hands , then proceed with whatever rub I am using after the glue has had a chance to adhere ( typically thirty minutes medium , but I have followed instructions to let set and congeal for up to eight hours ) . Then , you can apply the rub following the method above : keep one hand clean to pick up handfuls of rub and sprinkle the rub down , use the other hand to press that rub you are sprinkling down against the cut . This sequence minimizes the number of steps , the times where you need to wash your hands , and makes for great bark . Hopefully you can rotate the cut with one hand , if not it adds one hand-wash . I started doing it this way because I hated having the spice turn into clumps from the moisture . Now I not only have no clumps in the spice after , and sanitary spices for further usage , but also a clean left hand for turning on the sink to wash my right hand .
You should be able to cook on your grill using various types of wood such as hickory , mesquite , cherry , maple , apple , etc. . Per <URL> , birch can be used also . Birch - A softer wood , Birch is best used when grilling or smoking cuts of pork and poultry , providing a flavor similar to some varieties of maple . Birch is a softer wood and can also be syrupy . Also hard woods cook longer than soft woods . Be sure to use large chunks rather than chips or small pieces . Just keep these things in mind when cooking with birch .
Your polenta was probably sticking because you did n't use enough oil or your barbecue was too cool . Olive oil on a barbecue is a bad idea as it flares up and burns easily , you 're better off with a more standard vegetable oil . The choice of oil is not as important as the quantity in keeping things from sticking , you need to use a lot of it . I use a high temperature silicone to baste the barbecue surface with a lot of oil when I need things not to stick , some use a halved onion dipped in oil to apply it to the grill . Also oil your food . Your barbecue surface could also be too cool . If it 's too cool the surface of the polenta block wo n't form a crust quickly enough and will adhere to the grill . It should be hot enough that you ca n't hold the back of your hand over it for more than 2-3 seconds . Other factors in frying or grilling polenta are the thickness of the polenta , the temperature of the polenta , and the thickness of the mix . You want to be grilling thick slabs of still fridge-temperature polenta that was on the gloopy side when cooked .
The ratio of food to size of container will make a large difference as well as the the texture of the item being blended . This has been a problem for me with traditional blenders . I 've found that an immersion ( stick ) blender helps tremendously with this in two specific ways : First , with a stick blender , you are basically holding the blade and can move it around , preventing food from separating and sticking to the sides . Second , most immersion blenders come with small bowl accessories that in essence give you a " mini blender " . Since the bowl is smaller in size , food separating and sticking to the side is n't as much of an issue . Immersion blenders are pretty cheap -- you can get one for as little as $ 20 . I have the Braun model . It 's amazing but I think they stopped making it . The best one on the market now is the KitchenAid . I use mine for hummus , soups and pestos . It 's without a doubt one of the most useful tools in my kitchen .
Way too many variables . If you knew how warm the chicken was before cooking , how hot the cooking area is ( and whether that will change during the cooking time ) , how thick the chicken is , whether you 're cooking white or dark meat , and more , you might be able to make a good guess . I would not recommend cooking just thawed , thick pieces of chicken on an uncovered grill . Too easy to make it hard on the outside and dry on the inside . I would n't estimate lower than 20 minutes , but it will almost certainly be longer . Edit : Here 's a " Good Eats " video about doing chicken on a grill . <URL> It 's better to go ahead and cut the chicken up the rest of the way for grilling so that each type and size of meat can be on it 's own cooking schedule .
end question
start question
Is there a substitute for Dijon mustard and if so , what is it ?
Dijon has a strong taste from the liquid they use in it ( it 's not quite vinegar , not quite wine ) . I 'd probably try a blend of some other mustard + a little white wine vinegar ( not white vinegar ; white wine vinegar ) or champaigne vinegar or apple cider vinegar . ( Maybe even a dry white wine , if you have that on hand ) . If you have dry mustard powder , and some time to let it sit , you could also try making your own ; most of the recipes online seem to use a dry white wine as their base , a few use white wine vinegar .
They are both soft-ripened cheese , and there are certainly many similarities , but they are by no means the same . Camembert is aged at least 3 weeks ; Brie may be aged as little as 1 week . Brie is generally drained for 18 hours ; Camembert is drained for 48 hours . Brie may be salted before aging ; Camembert is not . Brie is more often pasteurized than Camembert ( although " genuine " Brie is unpasteurized ) . That said , there are many different varieties of Brie and many different varieties of Camembert , and it would n't be too surprising to find at least one Brie that tastes exactly like another Camembert . Still , they are quite different - different moulds , different draining , different aging .
Oxtail would be your most likely substitute , but you have indicated you can not obtain it . The next best choice ( of those widely available ) is probably chuck , which is the shoulder muscle , and is well worked and flavored . It requires low and slow cooking for best results , much like shanks and tail do . Some stores -- even the chain grocery stores -- will special order for you if you ask them to , so you might be able to get shank . Depending on where you live , you may also try butchers at farmers ' markets , Dutch markets , or similar .
The original recipe calls for a total of 2 lbs of ground meat , 1/2 beef and 1/2 veal . I would suggest a close approximation to the effect can be had by using either ( in decreasing order of preference ) : 50 % ground pork , 50 % ground beef -- Some of the mild flavor of veal , with tenderness and flavor from the pork 100 % ground beef -- It wo n't be as tender or as subtle , but still will be good I would avoid trying to use as part of your substitution mixture : Ground lamb , goat , ox , and so on -- flavor is too strong Ground chicken or turkey -- these are extremely low in fat , likely to toughen your overall mixture , and likely to make it taste more poultryesque Personally , I would also switch from whole eggs to just the yolks , which will bring the binding and tenderizing qualities of the yolk , without the slightly rubber-like texture of albumin based white , to more closely approximate the qualities the veal would have brought to the dish .
Flavor-wise Nicoise and Kalamatas are somewhat close , probably the closest most readily accesible substitute for most people .
When I made scones for the first time , I also found the taste a bit unusual . The recipe I used specified a total of 11 g baking powder and baking soda per 250 g flour , and also 5 g salt . I used less salt , but the taste is definitely unusal for people accustomed to continental Kleingebäck . I can see two reasons for this . First , the dough for scones is quite unusual , something between cookie and pastry . It is a lot tougher than the usual soda-leavened dough . So I guess that it needs additional leavening power in order to create a light texture , unlike the semiliquid batters which raise without a problem . Plus , it gets no help from egg whites the way some cakes do ( in fact , my recipe specified egg yolks only ) . The second point is one you already mentioned in the question . It seems that the English tradition is to eat scones with cream and jam . I tried it with my own scones , and the combination was quite good . I do n't eat much jam , as it is too sweet for my taste , but the pairing with the bland scones was really nice . A sweeter or richer vehicle would have made the whole thing overwhelming .
US Jalapeno and Anahiems ( red jalapenos ) are usually under 2,500 . If you cook them a little bit , it will also reduce the spiciness , while maintaining the flavor .
From a food safety perspective , the most important thing is that you get your leftovers cooled as quickly as possible , so that they do n't spend too long in the <URL> . This can be tricky , because you essentially have to move from cooking temperatures to refrigerated temperatures within two hours ( generally less because the time is cumulative , and includes time that the ingredients spent in the danger zone before you cooked them ) . Here 's what I do at home : Separate into smaller portions . For me , this usually means individual servings , but you can package 2-3 servings together ; the point is to avoid having a single large mass of food . I do this for a couple of reasons . First , it makes reheating convenient ; rather than heating up more portions than you 're going to be eating , or scooping out a single portion for separate reheating ( dirtying some extra dishware in the process ) you can simply grab as many portions as desired and go . Second , by separating the portions you are increasing their surface area , and therefore how quickly they will cool ( another reason I like individual servings is that it maximizes this effect ) . This is a basic trick from my restaurant days ; experienced professional cooks will know that to cool a large batch of soup safely , you need to either get the whole thing into an ice bath , or break it down into smaller portions . ( A thrifty tip here : you can use dedicated plastic or Pyrex food storage containers , but commercial containers are cheap and effective as well . There are all kinds of <URL> and <URL> containers intended for food service that are microwave-safe and which can be safely cleaned in the dishwasher . You 'll often have to buy them in bulk , but per piece they 're very inexpensive , they tend to stack very well , and if you 're lucky you can find a decent local takeaway or delivery place that uses them instead of styrofoam . Save whatever you get , wash them , and reuse . It 's possible to ruin these with excessive heat , but they 're so cheap that it 's not too much of a loss . ) Allow to cool on the counter , uncovered , for 10-20 minutes . The goal here is simply to let steam escape ; water carries a lot of thermal energy with it ( which is why you can easily burn yourself over a pot of boiling water ) and letting it get away will cool your food rapidly . The portions do n't need to cool completely at this point ; if they 're warm but no longer actively steaming , that 's fine . Put the portions in the refrigerator . As @Jefromi notes in comments , <URL> , and a lower external temperature will help your portions cool quickly and safely . Where possible , it 's ideal to leave these uncovered and spread out into a single layer so that they will cool quickly . Quite honestly , this is n't always practical , so if you need to cover and stack the portions due to space constraints , cool them a little longer on the counter before putting them into the fridge . Freeze the portions if you 'll be storing them for more than a couple of days . <URL> ; if you need to keep them beyond that , the freezer is your friend . This does n't work well for everything , but hearty foods like pastas will often freeze reasonably well . Reheat thoroughly in the microwave . For all that serious cooks might discount the microwave , it 's a very effective and efficient reheating device . ( Especially if you follow my advice about using microwave-safe plastic containers ; if you use something like Pyrex that 's oven-safe , you could certainly use that too . ) Make sure you heat everything so that it 's evenly hot ; this may mean stirring a couple of times . Overall , it 's most definitely possible to safely store leftovers , so long as you cool them quickly and reheat them thoroughly . Not only that , but I heartily endorse the practice . Leftovers can be practical , tasty , and a serious time saver . There 's no reason to be paranoid about them if you embrace a few simple rules .
I had this exact same problem for years . And it was all about letting the dough relax . I 'd get beautiful crusts , but never EVER pass the windowpane test . I was so confused . Turns out , all I had to do was leave it alone for about 10 minutes , much less and I 'd still run into issues . The window pane test is intended to show that enough gluten has been formed that you can stretch the dough . It 's a completely non-exact test . It 's just to ballpark if there is ' enough ' gluten . By leaving it alone for 10 minutes or more , the gluten has relaxed and can be stretched to form the window pane . This relaxing is the same thing that you may need to do while forming your pizza . If you find that your pizza dough will stretch out some , and then pull back constantly - its good because you 've probably got enough gluten . Let it relax for several minutes and then pull it back - go too far and you 'll likely accidentally form a window pane ! Enough gluten means that you 've formed an efficent ' net ' of gluten that will trap gases from the yeast and also provide some ' chew ' . You 'll get better rise and your bread will have a better crumb . Yeast breads without much gluten development are often denser . When hand kneading , an <URL> will also help ( well , it always helps , just especially when you have to do the work manually ) . By giving the dough a short rest after initial mixing , you let the dough fully hydrate and some gluten will start to form on its own . When you come back to knead the dough , you should find the dough more workable and a little easier to get to the ' kneaded ' point . What 's going on with ' relaxing ' gluten ? Kneading forms gluten , but it often also tangles them up a bit . <URL> and will pull out into long strands easier .
<URL> I found some baking times for specific sized cakes . For me , I just use the toothpick method . If it 's a spongecake , you can check by pressing down on it and if it " bounces " back it 's done .
I typically use potato , flour and egg . Make . Freeze . Then , go directly from freezer to boiling water . Do not defrost first .
In today 's modern culture and cooking style , the difference is likely unobserved . I would consider a stew less constructed than a casserole , however . While the stew would start with generally uncooked ingredients ( perhaps except for browning the meat , and likely be mixed together while cooking to give a single-dish of meat , vegetables and sauce . A casserole might include some cooked ingredients , often be more properly layered and probably not mixed while cooking .
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
I looked at the first 8 recipes that came up on a Google search . All but one just said " Dry White Wine " . One said , " dry white wine , such as Sauvignon Blanc " . So , I would say that 's your answer . Any dry white wine will do , perhaps Sauvignon Blanc might be ideal .
Like many crafts which originated in Japan , their sushi training more or less creates sushi artisans . If you just want to make a snack , you 'll have plenty of ability given a basic review of techniques . You should focus your learning on understanding food-safety , getting the rice right , and making the roll not fall apart . The rest is just levels of mastery which you need not approach in your kitchen in order to experiment and enjoy a good dish .
For white wine , try : chicken broth/stock vegetable stock white grape juice ginger ale canned mushroom liquid diluted white wine or cider vinegar For red wine , try : beef or chicken broth/stock diluted red wine vinegar red grape juice tomato juice canned mushroom liquid A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found <URL> .
See this <URL> page , it states that if not crumpled aluminum foils is generally safe , so make sure you do not crumple it . Then it says The USDA recommends that aluminum foil used as a partial food shield in microwave cooking cover no more than one quarter of a food object , and be carefully smoothed to eliminate sparking hazards . The <URL> states However , small pieces of aluminum foil can be used to " shield " areas of foods , such as poultry drumsticks and wings , to prevent overcooking . It also states General Rules for Safe Use of Aluminum Foil : Use new , smooth foil only . Wrinkled foil can cause arcing ( sparks ) . Cover no more than 1/4 of the food with foil . Shape the foil smoothly to the food so no edges stick out It makes no difference which side of foil ( shiny or dull ) is facing out . Do not place the foil closer than one inch from the oven walls . If the microwave oven has metal shelves OR a metal turntable , do n't microwave food in foil containers or metal pans , and do n't let foil used for shielding touch or be close to the shelves or turntable . If you see arcing ( sparks ) , immediately remove the foil shielding ; transfer frozen food from foil container to a microwave-safe utensil . My bolding . So make sure you only cover the top of the cup and make the foil smooth , do not crumple it and it should be safe . The reason to use this as stated in the blog is speed , a few minutes compared to much longer .
From personal experiences , reading cookbooks , and making far too many baked goods I 've learned that it can be tricky to just adding extra ingredients while maintaining a universal base cake or cupcake recipe . However , with good judgment and some basic ingredients ratios you could come close to an archetype . Some ratios ( by weight ) of basic ingredients include : Pound Cake - 1 part each flour , eggs , fat , and sugar Butter Cake - 2 parts each flour , and sugar . 1 part each eggs and fat Beyond that here are some basic rules The ratio of sugar to flour should be 1 to 1 in most recipes , maybe slightly higher in the sugar side of things . Same with eggs , they should weigh about the same as your fats , possibly slightly more . In general liquids measurements ( including eggs ) should weigh the same as or more than the sugar . Eggs are in interesting ingredient . Whites tend to dry things out while yolks tend to make a richer more velvety texture . More yolks to whites ( like in a yellow cake ) make for creamer textures , the inverse make for drier more crumbly textures . Then comes leavening . A teaspoon of baking powder per cup of flour often does the trick . Adding extra ingredients however can throw off your recipe . Bananas for example can replace some of the sugars and some of the fats . Peanut-butter some of the flours and some of the fat . Adding enough chocolate chips , though they stay pretty much contained , may not interfere with the other ingredients but will increase the density of your recipe and may require additional cooking time . Adding coco powder instead of flour usually deems the need for more egg yolks and sugars . Really you just have to play around until you get a good feel for things .
By " Italian Sausage " I think you mean the seasoned pork sausage available in many supermarkets throughout the US . I 've found that a 30-70 mix of beef and turkey/chicken works reasonably well as a substitute when pork is not available . Beef is too strong a flavor and turkey too weak in its own . Flavor-wise most italian sausage has red wine , fennel , and oregano .
end question
start question
How to recover jam that is too liquid ?
I have done this before and it has worked for me . It should work , but if it does n't , I know what will . My aunt sold Jam for a while and when the pectin did n't work she reheated and added a small amount of gelatin , I helped her stir it in , and that was the final fix for her bad mix .
I suggest using a brine . Lots of brining details can be found in the answers to this question : <URL> Alton Brown has a really great recipe for <URL> . You can watch the <URL> on YouTube in which he covers brining turkey . I also suggest reading <URL> ( PDF ) from Cook 's Illustrated .
If you want to be certain , I suppose you should ask the canning company . I ca n't speak for all countries , but in the U.S. , I 'm pretty sure the usual nutritional information reflects the total contents ( with liquid ) , unless the nutritional information explicitly specifies " drained , " e.g. , " Serving Size : 1/2 cup beans ( drained ) . " The relevant regulation appears to be from the Code of Food Regulations , Title 21 , <URL> : ( 9 ) The declaration of nutrient and food component content shall be on the basis of food as packaged or purchased with the exception of raw fish covered under 101.42 ( see 101.44 ) , packaged single-ingredient products that consist of fish or game meat as provided for in paragraph ( j ) ( 11 ) of this section , and of foods that are packed or canned in water , brine , or oil but whose liquid packing medium is not customarily consumed ( e.g. , canned fish , maraschino cherries , pickled fruits , and pickled vegetables ) . Declaration of nutrient and food component content of raw fish shall follow the provisions in 101.45 . Declaration of the nutrient and food component content of foods that are packed in liquid which is not customarily consumed shall be based on the drained solids . But how do we know whether the bean liquid is " customarily consumed " ? For most foods , we can go to <URL> , which gives instructions for isolating the " edible portion " of foods for nutritional analysis . Alas , that does not help either , since there are no instructions specifically for canned beans . Some canned vegetables are apparently often analyzed drained , but canned beans with sauces ( e.g. , pork and beans , chili and beans ) are explicitly listed with instructions NOT to drain . There 's no listing for plain beans . Yet there 's a clue in the <URL> ( p. 97 ) : Data for canned legumes were often developed for the purpose of nutritional labeling ; therefore data are presented for the total can contents . During the canning process , and sometimes during cooking , the cotyledons of legumes rupture , releasing starch into the brine ; therefore , draining of the liquid medium is difficult . However , cooks do generally drain these products . Some packers may add sugar to certain canned legumes and this may also affect the nutrient content . Another clue is in the reference amount for suggested serving size of beans in the <URL> , which has the following qualifications : Beans , plain or in sauce : 130 g for beans in sauce or canned liquid and refried beans prepared ; 90 g for others prepared ; 35 g dry . My experience is that I almost always see 130g as the serving size on canned beans in the U.S. , suggesting that they are following the above nutritional guidelines from the FDA and USDA and would include any sauce or canned liquid in nutritional analysis . ( Also , in the past I 've compared this 130g approximate serving size to the number of servings listed on a typical can of beans , and the only way to get close to the estimated number of servings is by counting the liquid . Usually the beans alone will weigh significantly less than the number of servings . ) Lastly , I would note that in the case of plain beans , the canning liquid likely contains only a small amount of calories anyway . For beans listed as being " in sauce , " clearly the implication is that one could consume the " sauce " and therefore any calories in it would be included . All of that said , the fact that there 's no explicit mention of beans in the first two documents I linked leaves a little " wiggle-room , " and thus I do n't think a bean canning operation would be in violation of U.S. labeling regulations if they drained the beans before calculating nutritional content . ( Though I 'm not a lawyer , so this is speculation . ) But various other documents -- including the other two I cited -- seem to indicate that including bean canning liquid for nutritional purposes is the norm in the U.S.
Two things - If the marinade is very strong or salty then the meat could simply become over flavored . If the marinade includes a meat digesting enzyme such as papain then leaving it too long could turn the meat to mush .
I would say you could use it once , and probably just to make refrigerator-type , quick pickles . The problem is that you have no way to determine acidity or salt levels once you remove the previously pickled items . Of course it should look clean and clear . If you were previously doing a lactic acid fermented pickle , some of the liquid could be used to jump start your next ferment .
Substituting oil for butter in a quick bread would be fine , but you only used 1/2 the amount of oil , and further added two pureed apples . These are about <URL> , substantially increasing the amount of liquid in the recipe . The thing is , the method for this pumpkin bread relied on the creaming method , which requires a solid fat ; changing to a liquid fat and apples ) would dramatically change the outcome . It would make the bread denser ( no leavening from creaming ) and more wet from the increased liquid . Then , by cutting the sugar almost in half , you reduced the ability of the bread to hold water , as sugar is hydrophylic . So it would seem more wet .
Very simply , bake it for the recommended time in the recipe . Then if it looks golden brown ( note that if the air in the oven is not humid enough the bread may stay pale , on a side note a humid oven helps to develop a good crust ) , tap it in on it 's base and if it sounds hollow its done . If it feels soft in the base and not hollow or If its still not golden brown , put it back in the oven for a few minutes then try the tap check again . Although you stated you dislike the thermometer technique , for others reading the bread should have an internal temperature of 200F or 94C , if not return it to the oven for a few minutes until it is .
Toughness is usually the result of either too much gluten ( which in turn comes from using a flour too high in protein ) , or not enough fat ( or possibly adding the fat at the wrong time ) . Poor volume on the other hand is usually the result of using low-protein flour , and thus not having enough gluten formation . Therefore it is logical to assume that the most likely cause of your bread troubles is the fat . Try adding some more fat .
Looks like FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ) does a formal testing <URL> . One of the easier methods : 2.4.5.3 . The Alcohol Test The test is quick and simple . It is besed on instability of the proteins when the levels of acid and/or rennet are increased and acted upon by the alcohol . Also increased levels of albumen ( colostrum milk ) and salt concentrates ( mastitis ) results in a positive test . Procedure : The test is done by mixing equal amounts of milk and 68 % of ethanol solution in a small bottle or test tube . ( 68 % Ethanol solution is prepared from 68 mls 96 % ( absolute ) alcohol and 28 mls distilled water ) . If the tested milk is of good quality , there will be no coagulation , clotting or precipitation , but it is necessary to look for small lumps . The first clotting due to acid development can first be seen at 0.21-0 .23 % Lactic acid . For routine testing 2 mls milk is mixed with 2 mls 68 % alcohol . Simplified for home use : This test is likely to be adaptable to household alcohol drinks such as vodka or similar beverages . For example the number of teaspoons of Vodka an ounce or two of milk can hold before it clots .
" Completely " definitely is n't a standardized term ; however , since we 're talking about making ice cream here , the correct answer is going to be " as cold as possible without freezing " . When making ice cream , it 's important to get the mixture as cold as possible before you freeze it , especially if you 're not using an ice cream machine , so that you give it as little time as possible for ice crystals to form . If large ice crystals form , then you wo n't have ice cream , you 'll have ice . So get it all the way down to refrigerator temperature and work quickly when you take it back out of the fridge . It 'll be quicker and easier if you chill the bowl or receptacle first .
Authenticity is often in question when it comes to curry . Korma covers a fairly broad range of South/Central Asian curries , their common feature being their creaminess . The creaminess can come from cream , coconut cream , yoghurt , or ground nuts - or a mixture of these . In the case of ground nuts , water might be added to add liquidity , although you may be surprised at how much liquid nuts contain . Just think how gloopy peanut butter can be .
just a cinnamon or cinnamon blend with nutmeg and other spices will make sparks when tossed into the fire . You do need a big flame for this ; I typically use a camp chef stove with a modified propane regulator to get the big flame needed .
For what it 's worth , I read once that you should briefly soak seitan in a bowl , covered in boiled water , to soften it up before using it . I have tried this , and it really does make a difference in the final texture . I typically cut it into cubes , soak it for about 10-15 minutes , then drain it and proceeded as normal for the recipe .
The historical purpose of jam is to preserve fruit from a time of bounty to a time when it is less plentiful . Therefore , to be a candidate for jam making , the fruit must be reasonably plentiful in the region where it would be preserved . Technically , in order to form a jam or a jelly , there must be sufficient pectin and sufficient acid in the fruit to thicken it . In some regions , there are traditional combinations of high and low pectin fruits , in order to get a viable jam from the low pectin fruit . Some fruits need acid , in the form of vinegar or lemon juice usually , added in order to help them gel ; others need additional pectin . <URL> has lists of high , medium , and low pectin fruits . Other than this , it is down to the cultural preferences in a given region .
Many hydrocolloids are very heat tolerant . <URL> Some of the options that might work for you are : <URL> A polysaccharide made from boiling seaweed , agar agar is heat stable up to about 90C . It gels when cooled to 40C . It is inexpensive and easy to find , especially in Asian markets . It would be relatively easy to coat the inside of a cone by heating the agar agar to 90C , cooling it almost to 40C and pouring into very cold cones and pouring out the excess ungelled liquid . Obviously it wo n't work if your liquid is hotter than 90C . <URL> Like agar agar , pectin is a polysaccharide but it is extracted from fruit . Regular , off the shelf , pectin that requires a lot of sugar is HM Pectin . It will melt easily . LM Pectin on the other hand , requires calcium to gel . Once gelled it is heat stable and will not melt again . Unless you have a well stocked specialty pastry supply store handy you may have to buy this online and it will definitely cost more than the agar agar . Sodium Alginate Like LM Pectin , sodium alginate gels in the presence of calcium . Often used to make " caviar " preparations of random liquids . It is easier to find for sale as part of molecular gastronomy kits . It forms a heat stable gel but you 'd have to be creative about how to coat a waffle cone with it . Perhaps you could form a sheet of it and " glue " it into the waffle cone . All in all , if your liquid is cooler than 90C , for cost and ease of use I would recommend going with the agar agar .
If you 're at all like me , you are reassured by hard numbers and measurables . This should help . In this situation one of the likely pathogens would be one of the Salmonella species . Salmonella is killed by temperatures in excess of 130 F ( 55 C ) . However , it 's not an instant death . The time to kill Salmonella decreases exponentially as the temperature increases . The following table represents all the temperature and duration to kill 99.9999 % of the most heat-resistant strain Salmonella senftenberg . This species is as much as 30x more heat resistant than a " normal " S. typhimurium . Temperature | Time --------------- | ------ 140 F ( 60 C ) | 60m 150 F ( 65 C ) | 10m 160 F ( 70 C ) | < 2m For any given temperature the proportion of bacteria killed is constant . 1/6th the time kills 90 % , 1/3rd kills 99 % , 1/2 kills 99.9 % etc. . USDA guidelines to kill Salmonella and E. Coli are as follows : Temperature | Time --------------- | ------ 135 F ( 57 C ) | 86.4 m 140 F ( 60 C ) | 8.6 m 145 F ( 63 C ) | 2.7 m 150 F ( 65 C ) | 51.9 s 160 F ( 70 C ) | < 6s 165 F ( 74 C ) | < 2s So , needless to say , re-searing your steak at a typically high stove top temperature ( at least 300 F [ 149 C ] ) for even a fraction of a second will result in utter devastation to whatever beastie population you may have picked up in recontaminating your meat . Chances are , if the steak came hot out of the pan , and you removed it from the plate quickly , the residual heat alone would be enough to kill it . The re-sear certainly does n't hurt though . A good rule of thumb is to wash plates as you go . If this is not possible or convenient you should minimally remove the plate from your vicinity by putting it in the sink or dishwasher as soon as you have taken the food off of it .
Your best bet it to divide the dough into two batches , freezing half for later . With the half you are working with , add 1/2 recipe worth of all the other ingredients again , except the lard . This will bring you into balance . The tortillas may be somewhat tougher than you would get if they were made to specification the first time , but that will avoid wasting your ingredients . Still , given that the ingredients in a tortilla are generally inexpensive , you may decide it is not worth it , and simply discard the spoiled batch and start again .
In the general case , it is not possible . As you cook meat past about 165 F , all of the proteins will have denatured and contracted , squeezing out moisture . This is what makes well done meat tough and stringy or rubbery . This process can not really be reversed , although you can try to mask it with a sauce . In the specific case of certain cuts -- the ones famous for braises or barbecue , the " low and slow " cooking techniques -- there is some hope , but it is a thin one depending on what you have been doing . These cuts , the most active working parts of the animal such as the shoulders ( chuck for beef or butt for pork ) have a great deal of intramuscular fat , as well as connective tissue made of a protein called collagen . Over time , when cooked slowly at temperatures of about 180 F , the collagen in the meat will turn into gelatin , which has a silky , smooth mouth feel , and the fat will lubricate the meat . They still have their proteins irreversibly dentures and tightened , but the gelatin and fat provide a new kind of moisture and unctuousness that is highly prized . The cooking techniques for this ( braising , barbecuing , slow roasting ) are rarely employed for chops or steaks that you would do in the frying pan . They also simply do n't have the collagen or the fat to make it possible . That is why they are better off with the higher temperature , faster cooking methods , but should not be overcooked , as you have discovered to your dismay . Your best option is not to try to recover from this situation , which is very difficult to do , but rather to learn to prevent it : Get a good instant read thermometer to check the internal temperature of your steaks or chops Learn what the safe temperature is for that type of meat . For example , poultry and pork should both be cooked to at least 155 F ( and for poultry , many people have learned to like even more done meat ) The FDA recommends 165 F for ground meat ( which is quite well done ) Measure the temperature of your meat and learn to recognize when it is done Assess what level of risk you are willing to accept Over time , you will learn to recognize when cuts are done to your liking by how they feel when you poke them with your finger ( which is a pretty good indication of how done they are , based on how resilient they are ) , but the thermometer will be your guide until you build that experience . Still , this will require that you adjust your expectations of what completely cooked meat looks like . Pork may still be a touch rosy , for example .
You 've got this all mixed up ! Unless you 're deglazing to do a pan sauce , the steak should be the LAST thing cooked . It 's the centerpiece of the dish and the most expensive part , and should n't have a chance to get cold while you cook the other parts . Saving cleaning on a single saucepan is not worth eating cold steak . You MUST use a stainless or cast-iron for this . As others touch on , teflon is not safe for searing , and fast temperature changes will wreck it . Here 's how to do things : Julienne onions to saute , prepare and measure stock , trim fat from steak , cut or butterfly it if needed ( this is your mise en place ) . Start preheating saute pan for onions Start butter melting in saucepan for roux Prepare roux and saute onions at same time , then add stock to roux , whisk , and season Transfer onions to bowl , cover to keep hot , and start to preheat pan for searing steak Cook steak while finishing sauce as needed , then rest it appropriately Plate steak , garnish , sauce , and serve Alternately , here 's another approach : Mise en place ( prep ingredients , optionally pre-measure them ) Prepare sauce in advance , set aside or keep hot . Or , even do it the day before and reheat it . It 's a roux-based sauce ; it wo n't go bad in the fridge , and will reheat beautifully . Saute onions . Or , caramelize onions beforehand , and just reheat them briefly and add . Cook steak Plate , sauce , serve And , finally the deglazed pan sauce way Mise en place Sautee onions . Set aside in bowl ( or on a serving plate ) Cook steak Throw heavy cream or red wine in to pan , and deglaze by scraping vigorously with a utensil and stirring as it boils vigorously Quickly season this , and throw in the onions , a few pinches of parsley , pepper , salt , garlic , and paprika , plus optionally thyme Congrats , you now have a pan sauce with onions to throw on your steak In a professional kitchen , you 'd have your onions pre-sauteed or sauteeing at the same time as the steak , and your sauce will be prepared in bulk , beforehand . You 'd only have to cook the steak and briefly heat or season the other two parts .
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
end question
start question
How can I cultivate and store yeast ?
In order to store yeast for that period of time it has to be make inactive , and the process to do that yourself is challenging , time consuming , and you 'd need specialist equipment . It would be prohibitive in both time and cost , far above just buying yeast . You can of course make a starter by mixing equal amounts of flour and water plus some yeast , this will keep the yeast alive by feeding it , and you can keep it alive indefinitely by feeding it once per week . You add some of the starter to your bread and it supplies active yeast .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
General comments on the shelf - , fridge - , and freezer-life of foods The shelf-life is the amount of time a food can be stored before it is considered unsuitable for use . It may be unsuitable due to quality degradation ( no longer tasty ) or food safety ( risk of food poisoning ) . [ <URL> ] As far as food safety goes , food stored frozen at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) or below is remains safe forever ; only quality degrades over time . [ <URL> ] . Thus the freezer-storage times below are entirely about quality . If your freezer is set at a temperature higher than -18 ° C ( three-star setting ) , these times may not apply . Especially the safe storage time in one-star freezers ( -6 ° C ) is much reduced . The times all assume proper storage . Freezers 0 ° F or below , refrigerators 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . [ <URL> ] Cans should be stored in a cool , dry place , below 85 ° F ( 30 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The tables given here assume proper storage . Food which requires refrigeration is considered unsafe if left for over two hours at temperatures between 41 -- 135 ° F ( 5 -- 57 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The Tables Regardless of the table below , if a food shows signs of spoilage ( including mold , with some exceptions described below ) , its past its shelf-life . Note that the lack of spoilage does not imply safety . Uncooked Proteins Cooked proteins Dairy Sauces For home-made mayo , there do n't seem to be official shelf-life estimates . Seasoned Advice has a question on this , <URL> . Vegetables Freezer times are given for cooked or blanched , then frozen . Generally , this is required , otherwise enzymatic degradation will occur . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each vegetable . Refrigerator and shelf times are for storage raw . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . Fruits Many fruits must be at least partially cooked ( blanched ) before freezing in order to deactivate enzymes that would otherwise degrade quality while in storage . Some are best frozen packed in acid ( lemon juice or citric acid ) and/or syrup . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each fruit . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . * : bananas stored in the fridge will blacken . This is not a sign of spoilage , and they can be eaten safely . Cooked dishes Generally 3 -- 4 days in the fridge . This includes pizza , soups , stews , casseroles , pies , and quiche [ KC ] . Some salads get a fifth day [ CFG ] . Freezer time is generally under three months . Infused oils Putting any plant matter in oil ( such as garlic , chillies or herbs ) creates the danger for botulism , a rare but fatal disease . Thus infused oils are not shelf-stable . They can be kept in the refrigerator for 3-5 days , discard them earlier if you see cloudiness or gas bubbles . Or buy commercially produced infused oils , they have been treated with industrial methods to kill the botulinum spores . Shelf-stable until opened Pantry ( not refrigerated even after opening ) General tips for storing foods How do I freeze fruits and vegetables ? Fruit . Ripe ( but not overripe ) fruit should be used . Wash them , and sort according to size . Working in small batches , remove pits , seeds , and blemishes . For fruits that turn brown , apply ascorbic acid or sugar and citric acid . Most fruits benefit from packing in dry sugar or a sugar syrup . Small , whole fruits ( e.g. , berries ) can be spread on a tray and individually frozen , then packed in a freezer bag or other airtight container . Vegetables . Most vegetables need blanching . To blanch , immerse in boiling water over high heat or steam over rapidly boiling water ( steam ) . After blanching , transfer to ice bath for the same amount of time as blanched . Drain and dry . Freeze either by packing in a freezer bag with as much air as possible removed , or by allowing to freeze on a tray , then putting in a bag or other container . General guideline is 8 -- 12 months for best quality . The above is a very quick summary of Iowa State University 's <URL> . The five-page document includes full details on over forty fruits and vegetables . Feel free to ask here on Seasoned Advice if that guide does n't answer your question . What about mold ? Some foods are expected to have mold in them ( e.g. , P. roqueforti in Roquefort cheese ) . Unexpected mold , however , is something to be concerned about . Mold can grow even on refrigerated foods , and even those high enough in salt or sugar to deter bacteria . Some molds produce mycotoxins . Mold growth can be minimized by cleaning the refrigerator every few months ( use a mixture of 1 tablespoon of baking soda per quart of water , then rinse with plain water , then dry ) , by keeping dishcloths , sponges , mops , etc. clean and fresh-smelling ; and keeping indoor humidity levels under 40 % . In general , the visible surface mold on a food is only a small part of the actual mold growth . For most foods , any visible unexpected mold grow
A few things to think about : Sprinkling kosher , sea , or another interesting salt on it for a flavor contrast Using some small amount of pepper a la the trendy pepper chocolate bars out there , or perhaps some paprika for smokiness Adding orange or lemon zest Pairing with an unsweetened or very lightly sweetened raspberry syrup ( at least in my experience fudge recipes do n't need more sugar ) Bacon ( inside or on top )
As long as they 're all dry ingredients , then you should be just fine -- after all , that 's exactly what a box of packaged cake mix is . Again , if it 's just dry ingredients , I see no need to refrigerate it . I would put it in an airtight container -- preferably a glass jar * . Placed in your pantry , it should have a shelf-life of a least a couple of months . &#42; Glass jars are my preference for storing dry ingredients -- they 're easy sanitize , and the twist-off cover makes an airtight seal : <URL>
All excellent information , but can I answer bluntly : none of them come even CLOSE to the real thing . Once you use fresh stock , you will never , ever go back . Really . Making stock is easy , cheap , and as said above , unattended time . Stock forms the base of the kitchen , once you have it , you will notice the taste of everything you make improve so much . Get some bones ( most butchers will give the away for free , just become friends ) cold water , bring to boil , throw away the dirty water , start again with fresh water . This saves you the trouble to skim the grey foam , which is the white blood cells and other bitter tasting substances . It is also much more effective as skimming . And it results in a clearer , better tasting stock . When you do it , you will see what I mean straight away . I even rinse the pan Add onions and celery , and basically all the cut-offs of all your vegetables . pepper corns , bay leaves , unpeeled garlic cloves , whatever you like . You dont need to peel the onion . The fuller the pan , the better the stock . On your storage problem : two solutions . Big restaurants do not store , they just have a big pan boiling night and day . Small scale : after a hours or a night of slow boiling or so , remove bones and veggies . Cool . When fat is solid , remove and use this for frying : fried taters , etc. . Now boil down the broth , really down to say 20 percent . You have a demi glace now . Put it in ice cube trays , and freeze . When frozen , remove , and put in bags . You have now concentrated fresh stock that takes up no space , and you can use in any quantity you require . Please try it . Again : NOTHING comes close to the real deal .
The wine will bring several things to the breadmaking party : Acidity Alcohol Water Flavoring Color ( especially if it is red wine ) The biggest of these is the alcohol which is a yeast byproduct -- they do n't like it in their environment , and it inhibits their growth . The acidity can do the same . Proofing will be retarded , and you may need a larger starting quantity of yeast than for a wineless loaf . You would also have to adjust the amount of liquid in the formula to account for that from the wine . Your bread would probably take on a strange mauve color , after being baked , and may have some hint of winey flavor . I think the lack of well known wine-loaves in the world 's baking traditions indicates this does not generally work out very well , although there are some recipes for yeast raise breads containing wine such as <URL> from The Fresh Loaf .
I would keep the one that you are eating the next day out . I would then freeze the rest of them . If you like them warm , you could freeze them wrapped in foil . Before eating pop them in a toaster oven until gently warmed through . If not I 'd freeze individually until solid then put in a bag to prevent your frozen bagels from sticking together , then thaw overnight ( if eating in the morning ) or in the morning ( if eating for a mid-day meal ) to eat .
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
Dry biscuits ( American ' biscuits ' - not cookies ) , or anything other flour based quick bread that dried out - if you 're trying to replicate the bread crumbs . You may be able to get by with a modified muffin recipe as well . You 'll want to avoid fats and oils to reduce the moistness . Yeast bread develops a particular flavor and larger hole structure than quick bread though . The flavor of a quick bread breadcrumbs should be slightly different , but in many dishes the subtle difference wo n't be overwhelming unless the breading is a ' star ' of the dish . The hole structure really does n't matter luckily - as developing that is a large part of the time factor of real bread . Drying it out will be the harder part . The denser structure holds moisture better , so slice it thin and give it low , dry , long heat . Personally , anything that you 're going to make for the purpose of breadcrumbs that is n't just a substitute ( like cereal , crackers , etc in the other answer ) , sounds like it 'd be easier just to make a loaf of fast rise bread to me .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
Most bakers refer to this as a starter and it is extremely easy to keep up . You will need a plastic bag or a jar to keep it in , a cup of warm water , and some flour . You can either grow some wild yeast or add a particular strain to the growth solution depending what you are trying to do with the yeast . Once you do that , just leave it someplace warm but not over 100 degree F . Then once a day , you feed the yeast by removing half and adding back a half cup of flour and a half cup of water . Once it starts foaming remove to the fridge and remember to feed once a week . It will be with you for the rest of the your time on earth . Also , that half you take out when you feed it ? Makes a great gift to other baking or cooking friends . Also , if you devolop a dark smelly liquid , just stir it back in , it is normal and nothing to worry about .
<URL> states that one cake is the equivalent to one packet of dried yeast ( 0.25 oz or 2.25 tsp ) : One ( 1/4-ounce ) yeast packet of dry yeast OR 1 cake fresh , compressed yeast EQUALS 2 - 1/4 teaspoons dry yeast ( active dry or instant active dry )
Harms ? Meh , that 's silliness . You can make your own fizzy water if you 're so inclined . <URL> . If you really do n't want fizzy , then just substitute still water in any of the recipes in a search for <URL> . Choose recipes that use soda water , club soda or seltzer water , not ginger ale . Ginger ale adds flavor , you want recipes that stand without that flavor . EDIT : Just to be clear ; soda water , club soda or seltzer water are all just water , injected with carbon dioxide to make bubbles ( carbonation ) . So by substituting regular water for soda water , club soda or seltzer water all you 're losing is the " fizzy " . ( Club soda may have a tiny amount of something like baking soda to neutralize the decrease in PH caused by the carbonation , <URL> gets further into it , but for all practical purposes , they are all just bubble water . )
No , you probably do n't want to just squish leftover puff pastry dough together to save it . While it would be perfectly safe , it would ruin the layering that gives the rise and flakiness that is the reason for using puff pastry . If you have a large enough section still intact , you could put in the refrigerator for a day or two , to use later . Otherwise , a typical thing to do would be to prepare sweet or savory snacks with the surplus pieces . Cut it into convenient shapes . If you have large enough pieces , sticks would be good , even twisting them to give them an interesting texture . Then , brush the pieces with butter ( or oil ) , and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar ; or grated Parmesan cheese ; or rosemary and salt ; or some other complimentary flavor . Bake the pieces up until they are puffed and golden brown and they are very nice snacks or treats .
I always store mine in the pantry . I use it frequently enough that sprouting is rarely an issue . If you need it to last longer you can freeze garlic , though I have never needed to . Shelf Life An unbroken bulb of garlic can last 3-5 months in a cool ( 55-60 F ) dark place . Once broken , the remaining cloves last only about 7-10 days . Frozen , you can store garlic 10-12 months . Source : <URL>
After a quick Google search , I found <URL> that deals with this exact matter . They 'll grate well and it 's handy when ( just semi-defrost them ) you need some grated zest as you can just pull out a bag from the freezer and sprinlkle them into your recipe . They 'll juice but you need to defrost them which I 'm told is best done by ' zapping ' them in the microwave for 30 seconds . Apparently you get more juice after they 've been frozen as it bursts the cell walls releasing more juice . Hope this helps !
Generally , cooked beans keep best frozen , at least if you 're keeping them for more than a day or two . As for what you 'd refrigerate them in to save the to use tomorrow , I 'd suggest either their own liquid ( if you 're going to use it in the recipe ) or drained ( but tightly covered ) . Alternatively , if they 're going to go into some sauce , you could let them marinate in it . A teaspoon of citric acid ( assuming anhydrous , i.e. , dry ) is a fair bit , especially for 1L . That will be very sour . ⅛ tsp citric acid into 1L water is notably sour .
My tub of tamarind paste says store in a cool dry place . It should last up to its use by date ( 2 years in my case ) , provided it does n't grow mould .
In the freezer , more-or-less indefinitely , depending on how good your freezer is . Certainly months to years . In the fridge , it depends on the kind of mole . Quick moles ( like various green moles ) do n't keep very long , maybe a week at most . A long-cooked mole should keep a bit longer -- up to 2 weeks -- since all of the ingredients are completely cooked . If you 're not planning to use it within a week , though , why not freeze it ? The texture wo n't take any harm from freezing and thawing .
end question
start question
What does it mean if human DNA is in hot dogs ?
There is definitely no food safety concern here . While the report you cite makes a big deal out of this , implying that there 's some kind of serious problem being detected here , in <URL> they say : The most likely cause is hair , skin , or fingernail that was accidentally mixed in during the manufacturing process . It is unlikely that human DNA is harmful to consumer health . In general , we consider human DNA a hygienic issue that degrades the quality of food more than a public health concern . Human DNA in products in our opinion speaks more issues [ sic ] of truth in advertising , pricing , and overall transparency . What most people do n't know us [ sic ] that some amounts of human DNA may fall within an acceptable regulatory range . That means that some human DNA is often allowed , regulatorily speaking . The amounts we detected in our research all fell within the acceptable regulatory range as we understand them . It seems they 're saying that this is all totally safe and allowed ( by the people whose job it is to keep our food safe ) , and that the issue is one of transparency . I guess they think that food manufacturers should tell us that , as permitted by regulations , there are possibly tiny and completely safe amounts of human cells in food . But that seems pretty over-the-top ; it 's true about all food , so we 'd have to slap that label on everything we eat . Bottom line , food is not produced in a clean room environment . It 's not a bunch of workers in bunny suits , being careful to not let a single skin cell float into the air and end up in your food ; that 'd be incredibly expensive and not provide any real benefit . So naturally , there 's an opportunity for small amounts of human skin and hair to end up in your food . And as Stephie pointed out , this is basically a DNA testing lab . Of course they have very sensitive equipment ( which they also brag about in the FAQ ) , so they 're able to detect things at a level that really should n't concern you . So as Lars also mentioned , it 's kind of incredible that they were only able to find human DNA in 2 % of samples . That means that 49/50 hot dogs are actually produced to a significantly higher standard than required ! Frankly , I think that report is presented fairly dishonestly . They deliberately neglected to mention in the initial results section that this is all safe , and instead implied that it was a problem you should worry about . Saying in the FAQ " What most people do n't know ... " hammers this home ; they know that most people do n't know this , and still did n't bother to say so .
The advertised reason is that the alcohol will cut some of the protein chains resulting in a fondue that is dippable and not so stringy . Obviously the alcoholic beverage of choice will also add a lot of cheese-compatible flavor as well . Fondue recipes that do n't include alcohol universally call for acid to achieve a similar effect .
No . The per-serving nutrition numbers are rounded and only reflect the value for a single serving . A value of 0 simply means " less than 0.5 mg " in a single serving .
The crusting is important so that any flowers or other intricate decorations will fix their shape and not slump when left out in warmer temperatures . ( you do n't want to refrigerate iced cakes , as when you remove them from the fridge , you 'll get condensation ) . An icing that crusts quickly means that you can use an icing that 's not quite as stiff for your decorations , and after a few hours of decorating , you 'll come to appreciate that minor difference . The crust is also a benefit when trying to get a <URL> . Some other recipes will crust over time , and <URL> uses more powdered sugar and cream of tartar , but no merangue powder . I suspect it 's the starch in the powdered sugar that ensures that it still crusts up . As for shelf life ... I 'm not 100 % sure . I believe that the eggwhites have been pasteurized , and I 've made flowers , let them dry out , then kept them stored for months at a time ... but I ca n't remember if those were made with merengue powder or not . I suspect that some batches were .
Yes that 's exactly what it means , apply salt to the steak . You should n't coat it , but you should apply salt very liberally . It 's actually hard to over-salt a steak ; many inexperienced cooks actually underseason the steak . I suggest about 1 tsp per side for a good ribeye . Salt it about 10-15 minutes prior .
Yes , onions contain sugar , just like most fruit and vegetables . It is not simply a common phrase , it is true caramelization . They have 4.24 g of sugar per 100 g in total ( wet weight ) . For dry weight 40 % is sugar . See <URL> for more details .
Forever . Honey , comb present or otherwise , does not go bad . It even acts as a preservative . The date you are seeing is solely referring to the " quality " degradation . Completely edible honey has been found in 3,000 year old Egyptian tombs .
It 's not safe to assume that food wo n't cause a blockage if there are other processes at work . I 've known multiple people who have had tree roots manage to break into their sewer pipes . ( odds are , there was a leak of water , the roots went towards it , and then opened the pipe up further ) . If the drain is already restricted , larger particles can make the situation problematic . In my case , when the state highway was installing sidewalks and curbs on my street , their contractors ended up crushing sewer lines along our side of the street . I know that at least four of us were affected , as we started having issues with blockages and basements getting flooded by sewage ... but it took a couple of weeks for other matter to start filling in the crevices until we reached a complete blockage . Even in the case where you do n't already have an obstruction in your pipes , garbage disposals are quite inefficient as a way of disposal ; you 're wasting clean water in the process , and you 're putting extra work on the sewage treatment plants . Sewage treatment plant are designed to handle a specific volume of water and waste , and in cases of periods above their capacity , they may have to divert untreated water and hope that dilution will be sufficient . This means increased nutrient loads in your waterways , which can cause algae blooms and kill fish populations . ( although the unprocessed food is n't as bad as the other stuff that 's typically in wastewater ) . Most carbon digestion is an aerobic process , with the result of the breakdown of food in the wastewater using up the oxygen in the water . Discharging this low-ox water can also lead to deadzones . You also have to look at what a treatment facilities does with their extracted solids . In some newer facilities , there is biogas extraction , and the decomposition of the materials is used to power the facility . ( sometimes , with excess capacity sold off ) . In others , they have to truck it away ... sometimes it 's spread on fields as ferilizer . Other times it goes through a ' de-watering ' process ... either pumped to the bottom of a lagoon to digest or spread out into troughs to air-dry , then hauled to a landfill for disposal . Garbage disposals are convenient , and they 're useful for the occassional scraps ... but if you can , compost your food scraps . As for normal garbage vs. garbage disposal , there too many local factors -- if you 're in a water restricted area that does n't have a biogas system or sufficient capacity at the water treatment facility , normal trash is likely your best yet . If you 're in an area with lots of water , sufficient treatment capactiy and a biogas system , garbage disposal may be better . For more reading on some of the hidden costs of garbage disposals , see : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I do n't think I 've ever even had hot buttered rum , but I can take a stab at some of your questions : 1 part ice cream and 2-3 parts boiling water will still average out pretty hot . If the ice cream is at , say , -20 to -10 C , that 'll get you in the 60-70C range initially , which is I think fairly normal for hot drinks . And of course , if you keep it in the refrigerator instead , your drink will be hotter ! I suspect mixing ice cream with butter will help it all mix together better in the end , by helping disperse the fat . Ground spices are n't going to need a ton of steeping . I imagine the boiling water would be enough , and if not , the pre-cooking could easily compensate . And since some recipes just have nutmeg sprinkled on top , it sounds like steeping is n't necessarily the goal . If you 're really aiming for spiced hot buttered rum , you 'll probably want more spices than those recipes , and perhaps to cook them briefly with the butter . If you intend to freeze the " batter " , including ice cream will help keep it soft enough to scoop/slice . If it were just butter and sugar , it 'd get quite hard in the freezer . Yes , the milk/cream content of the ice cream would make the drink a little creamier - but I do n't know whether hot buttered rum should be a bit creamy . It sounds like it 'd be fine either way - personal preference , perhaps ?
Depending on what it is I am transporting I use different methods , and I use the same methods for both hot and cold transport . The easiest is the towels in a box ; lay four towels down in a shallow box , hanging the other ends of the towels out each side of the box , then put your dish or bread or pot or whatever in the box and fold each of the four towels over the food . If you have hot food , lay some more insulation material over the top , as heat rises . If you have cold food , put the box on the seat , not the floor , as the floor will conduct heat from your vehicle up into your food . I always have a sleeping bag in my rig and I will sometimes wrap food well with towels and then open the sleeping bag and shove the food into it , wrapping the rest of the sleeping bag over the top if hot food and under the bottom if cold . This has worked a lot for frozen foods when I go bulk shopping in the city , holding food frozen food for 4 hours and more .
I 'll leave the question of food safety and mandatory canning or not with regard to ingredients to others , but frankly , if you have a large pot in your kitchen you have a canner . For small batches and only very occasional use , there is no need to buy a separate canner . Place a small metal rack ( if you have one small enough ) or a folded towel on the bottom of the pot ( I like to use my pasta pot with the insert ) , put jars on top and fill with water until almost to the top of the tallest jar . Yes , you can process jars of different sizes in one batch . Rule of thumb : cold jars go in cold water , hot jars in hot water . This setup is equivalent to a separate canner minus the extra gadgets like timer , thermometer / thermostat and other features that are for your comfort and ease of use , not essential for the physical process of heating and sealing the jars . So if you want to play it safe , put your sauce in the jars1 , add lids and screw them on with the bands " fingertip tight " . Place them in the water bath and slowly bring to a boil . Once your water is simmering , " canning time " starts . Off the cuff , ten to fifteen minutes should be fine for a cooked BBQ sauce , longer is n't a problem either . After that , lift the jars out and cool slowly in a drought-free area . If done correctly the lid will stick to the jar even without the bands , so you get an extra safety mechanism : If your sauce should spoil , the lid will come off , being a clear indication of trouble . But my main reason why I suggest canning the jars is this : If you ship your sauce , you have no control over the storage conditions of your jars during transit and - depending on the destination - constant refrigeration or similar might not be possible everywhere on this world . That alone would be reason enough to do the extra step , which is surprisingly easy once you give it a try . I suggest leaving the rings on during shipping and instructing the recipient to remove them on arrival to notice any signs of spoilage . 1 This includes the usual steps done even without canning , e.g. cleaning the jars and lids , " sterilizing " them in your oven or in boiling water , keeping the rims of the jars clean and filling the hot food immediately into the jars . In short , what you would normally do to ensure general cleanliness and food safety .
It means to combine the things listed up to and including the cloves , as in " combine ingredients 4 through 11 " . In that recipe it 's just a helpful hint to tell you where the dry ingredients stop . The recipe is already calling for ground cloves - it mixes them into dry ingredients as-is . When using whole cloves , if you do n't immediately just grind them , you generally cook them in something liquid then strain them out later . ( Similar to cinnamon sticks or whole allspice . ) The cinnamon and nutmeg in the recipe are also ground , not whole . If a recipe wants whole cloves , it will explicitly say , and often count them : 10 [ whole ] cloves .
" Al dente " is used to refer to food cooked so it is still " firm to bite " but not soft This is very important to pasta which should be removed from the cooking liquid just before it has fully cooked through , as like most foods , it will continue to cook after being removed from the heat source Always gently stir your pasta every minute or so while cooking to ensure it cooks evenly . Then near the end of the cooking time , bite into a piece of paste every 15 seconds or so to see if it has nearly cooked through . It should be firm to bite , and not soft all the way through . It should not resist biting though With some pasta types like Penne etc. you can sometimes actually see the uncooked inner layer ( a thin white line ) if you carefully slice it in half which a knife , or just bite cleanly with your teeth If the pasta is going to be mixed into a hot liquid sauce before serving , take the pasta out of the cooking liquid at an even firmer point The term " al dente " can be used for all cooked foods that should be cooked to just before soft , and then served ( fresh greens , thin meat cuts etc. ) The reason for all of this is that there have been many flavour and nutrition benefits noted when cooking to this point . Also for pasta it tends to fall apart if cooked past " al dente "
It is a common misconception that the shelf life of a cooked food ( = mix of ingredients ) is the same as the shelf life of the shortest-lived ingredient . I can not stress enough how wrong this assumption is . As with any cooked food , the shelf life of hot chocolate should be about 3 to 5 days in the fridge , with a cumulative stay in the danger zone of no longer than 2 hours . An explanation of why the assumption is wrong : Food spoils when bacteria ( or sometimes other organisms like mold ) create a colony in it . For this to happen , the food has to offer all the conditions an organism needs for survival . Most cooked foods are nutritious enough to ensure the survival of simple organisms . There are single ingredients which hold for longer . Bar chocolate is a good example . The reason for that is that they are not a complete medium . Chocolate does not have enough moisture for bacteria to grow in it . But as soon as you mix any ingredient with something else , you can not know if the other ingredients have not added the factor the bacteria have been missing . So , if you mix for example water ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no calories ) and flour ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no moisture ) , you get dough , which will have large bacterial colonies within 3 days . Exceptions in the other direction ( food that spoils sooner than 3 days ) are foods which decompose on their own . For example fish - it goes bad quickly even at fridge temperature , but the reason is the fish 's own enzymes , not bacteria . That 's why it is normally held on ice , if not frozen outright . As a side note , you can not rely on the expiration date of milk anyway . It is OK for traditionally pasteurized milk . But the expiration date of ESL and UHT milk is only valid as long as the packaging has not been broken . Once you open it , it is again good for about 5 days . Conclusion : For anything cooked , up to 5 days in the fridge is a good assumption . Make it less for food which is known for high risk of contamination ( e.g. food containing raw eggs ) , but never longer , even if the expiration date of the ingredients is longer than that .
The answer to your first question is basically the answer to your second question with associated risk analysis ( i.e. , if yes , is it worth it ? ) . So to answer your second question , yes it does seem likely that most plastic containers <URL> under some conditions . Furthermore , many of the compounds that are released from plastics have not been fully tested , so the absence of specific information on their risk is not evidence of an absence of risk . Since it does appear that these plastics can release harmful compounds under certain conditions then the answer to your first question of is it safe , boils down to " are you replicating an environment where enough endocrine mimics are released to cause harm ? " Given the lack of research on all of the ways in which plastics leach and the fact that there is <URL> , I personally would conclude that the risk exceeds the inconvenience of having to find a non-plastic container to transport your tea .
Wilting in greens is triggered by temperature , pH , and salt content . To reduce wilting , you can cool the vegetables or shrimp , make the vegetables more acidic * , or decrease their salt content . My suggestion would be to cool the shrimp with an ice water bath or cold running water . This is the most traditional approach for shrimp salad . Alternately , you could apply an acidic dressing before topping , but wait to salt it until the shrimp have cooled to 140F . Alternately , wilting of vegetables adds a rather interesting variation in flavor or texture to a salad . This technique has been desirable and in vogue at various times . Why does this all happen ? Plant cells wilt when cooking breaks apart the cellulose-based cell walls , and allows water to escape , causing them to soften . To quote On Food and Cooking ( pp 282 ) : When the tissue reaches 140F/60C , the cell membranes are damaged , the cells lose water and deflate , and the tissue as a whole goes from firm and crisp to limp and flabby . Acids will impede wilting , because the cell walls are held together with hemicellulose , and it is " not very soluble in an acid environment " ( pp 282 ) . Table salt is a problem , because " its sodium ions displace the calcium ions that cross-link and anchor the cement molecules in the fruits and vegetable walls , thus breaking the cross-links and helping dissolve the hemicelluloses " ( pp 283 ) . Calcium has the opposite affect , so if you can use hard water or add calcium salts , do so . * Acidic solutions will reduce green colors ( On Food and Cooking , pp 280-281 ) , but preserve texture ( 282 ) .
Let a hot pepper ( jalapeño or habañero , perhaps ) soak in your liquid for however long it takes to achieve the desired hotness .
It does n't compare at all - broiling is the US term for what is called grilling in UK . The heat source is above the food . In the US , a " grill " is used to mean a " gas powered barbeque " , as the Brits would say . The heat source is below the food .
" Folding " is a more gentle mixing technique than " stirring " and " mixing " . Stirring and mixing both denote a more vigorous action . Folding is usually used for items where something has previously been whipped ( such as egg whites or cream ) or where tenderness is desired and thus less mixing is advisable ( muffins &amp; biscuits ) . Folding is usually done with a rubber spatula ( for liquid &amp; dry ingredients ) or with a wire whisk ( often beneficial for whipped cream and egg whites so that the mixture gently incorporates as it falls through the wires ) . To " fold " ingredients together : Hold the spatula or whisk in your dominant hand and grasp the far edge of the bowl ( side that is away from you ) with your non-dominant hand . Turn the bowl towards you with your non-dominant hand while simultaneously scraping around the edge ( also toward you ) and finish by folding the mixture over on top of itself . Return both hands to the far side of the bowl and follow-up by cutting through the center of the mixture with your utensil and once again folding the mix over on top of itself ( again , turning the bowl simultaneously ) . Alternate scraping around the side and through the middle of the bowl until the mixture is just combined together . Note that if an airy mixture such as egg whites or whipped cream start to go from soft and billowy to more liquid-like , you are overworking it and need to stop to maintain volume . In the case of whipped cream and egg whites you typically add a small portion to the heavier mixture and actually DO stir this in . While yes you 're losing some of the volume of that portion , it serves to help lighten the heavier batter/mixture . The rest of the whites/cream are then folded in to the mix in several additions . Sometimes dry ingredients may be sift on top of whipped eggwhites before being folded . The larger the spatula or whisk , the fewer strokes that will need to be made and the better the results will be .
The oven shelf is not the back of the oven . Basically what you would do is lift one side a little ( maybe an inch or so ) and let it drop . Then you can do the other side . This will give you a more fudgy and less cake-like crumb , as the cake-like finish comes from trapped air bubbles . If you rap the pan to help the air escape then you have less trapped air and thus a denser , more fudge-like crumb .
end question
start question
Does sugar inhibit mold growth ?
TLDR ; Yes . Sugar does inhibit growth of mold . How does this work ? Several reasons : Sugar prohibits growth through osmosis / dehydration . " The most notable is simple osmosis , or dehydration . Salt or sugar , whether in solid or aqueous form , attempts to reach equilibrium with the salt or sugar content of the food product with which it is in contact . " Source : <URL> Sugar weakens the molecular structure of pathogens ' DNA Salt and sugar 's other antimicrobial mechanisms include interference with a microbe 's enzyme activity and weakening the molecular structure of its DNA . Sugar may also provide an indirect form of preservation by serving to accelerate accumulation of antimicrobial compounds from the growth of certain other organisms . Source : <URL>
Weak organic acids such as those found in fruits and vegetables ( citric acid , malic acid , tartaric acid ) do n't react with sugars . 1 There is no change in acidity , which you correctly defined as measured by the pH. At the same time , sweet and sour are two tastes which are real antagonists - adding something sweet actually reducess the sourness we perceive , as opposed to just distracting us from it . So the sugar changes the sourness ( the taste ) , but not the acidity ( the chemical property ) . Hearing it otherwise comes from the fact that most people do n't even realize that there is a difference between the two terms , and use them interchangeably . 1 They can partake in reactions as catalysts , for example to create invert sugar when cooking up sugar syrup , but the acid itself does not react away .
Mold is growing because there 's something for it to consume , the only way to prevent it from happening is to clean your grill more effectively , or carbonize it before the fire goes out . No grill is air-tight , so even though it gets a good heat blast ( not enough to sterilize it as you may think ) , spores will get in from outside . Remember , hot air is less dense , so as the BBQ cools it will draw air in , hence the spores . Once there they thrive in the sheltered and often damp conditions in a closed-up barbecue . I think where you may be going wrong is that you close the valves after cooking . That cuts off the air and kills the fire . I leave all my valves open to keep it as hot as possible after I 'm done cooking , and it does a better job of charring all the leftovers .
It 's going to depend greatly on what you 're baking . Sugar serves several different purposes beyond just providing sweetness . Besides sweetness : tenderness by interrupting and minimizing gluten formation . Sugar promotes spread in cookies Retain moisture and extend keeping quality ( in baking sugar is actually considered a " liquid " ingredient due to its hygroscopic qualities - the ability to pull moisture from it 's surrounding atmosphere ) . Promotes browning and caramelizing Assists in aeration and leavening ( as in creaming butter and sugar to aerate the dough ) stabilizes egg whites Provides food for yeast growth and fermentation In some instances you might be able to use a syrup ( honey , corn syrup , molasses , etc. ) but not in all cases . For instance the granular nature of sugar is necessary for aeration of cookies and cakes because the jagged edges create air pockets as they pass through the fat . Syrups primarily serve the purposes of sweetening , browning , and moistening . Honey could be used in muffins that are being made using the muffin method ( aka two-bowl method ) because this method would use a liquid fat ( melted butter/oil ) but not in the creaming method ( producing a more cakelike structure from the creaming process ) . When using syrups you have to account for the addtional moisture that they provide . From : " How Baking Works " ( Paula Figoni ) " The National Honey Board recommneds the substitution for using honey in place of granulated sugar . This accounts for both the amount of water in honey and for its intense sweetness : use 1 pound honey in place of 1 pound granulated sugar ; reduce water ( or other liquid ) in the formula ( recipe ) by 2.5-3 ounces . " Overall , when making substitutions of ingredients that are critical to the structural and eating qualities you probably will not be able to replicate the same results with the substitution . In the end , it will often be a case of " what is the next best thing " and realizing there will be quality differences in the finished product .
So , there 's no method to get sugar out of milk , as far as I know . You can look for milk products where some of the sugar is used up ( fermented , like Chris H mentioned ) , but this will significantly change taste and texture - sugar is a major part of what milk is , fats and sugars and proteins , and you 're removing most of the actual substance . You 're likely to do better with an unsweetened nut milk or rice milk , especially if you make your own so you can tweak to taste . These may have more fats , depending on your choice of recipe , but will likely have sugar closer to your desired range One thing you might try , if you 're really determined , is to dilute your milk ( maybe up to half ) and add artificial sweeteners . You 'll still get some of the flavor components from the added milk , and some sweetening to make up the difference in taste , but there will be less sugar because the actual amount of milk is less . Hopefully the added artificial sweetener might make it taste less watery , but maybe add just a half a pinch of salt if it still tastes too thin . in the end , ~ 6g sugar per cup , I guess ? Another possibility is to use unflavored whey powder to flavor the diluting water ( again , probably no more than half of your " milk " ) , then adding artificial sweetener to taste . The whey should have some of the flavors from the proteins in milk , and at least from the powder I checked it does n't have much of the sugar or fat you 're objecting to . It might help the diluted milk taste less watery . ~ 7g sugar , because I think the whey powder has a gram and a half per serving . Final possibility I thought of - you can maybe grab some creamer powder and use that to flavor your diluted milk ( again , not more than half and sweeten to taste ) . Or even use it on its own , if the flavor works for you . The amount of sugar is n't stated , but it has to be under 1g because that 's all the carbs there are per serving - though it does add a half gram of fat back in .
Butter traditionally has salt in it as a preservative , mainly to stop bacterial growth on the residual whey , and to slow fat rancidity Modern butter has a much lower amount of salt than is required for shelf storage in the pre-electric era . Now we have refrigerators , salt is not required at such a high level Butter with no salt has nearly half of the shelf life of modern salted butter Processed sugar is a modern ingredient , and therefore there is no culture in having it in butter . Sweet yoghurt and milk are all " new " inventions Using salt as a preservative is as old as recorded history . Many cultures used salt to preserve fruits , as well as meats and vegetables
Yes ! Sugar is often used as a " wet " ingredient in baking . That means it needs to be dissolved in the water in order to prevent too much gluten from being produced ( making the result fluffy/flaky , and not chewy ) . Different sugars hold different amounts of moisture ( for example , brown sugar holds more than white ) and using sugar with crystals that are too large ( or too small ) will make the texture come out completely wrong . Too small and your cake will be rubber ; too large and your biscuit will fall apart . Also , if you 're using the sugar for creaming ( with fat ) , you generally need to use a coarser sugar . Superfine sugar will dissolve too quickly and wo n't allow enough air to be incorporated . Confectioner 's sugar is good for creaming but has completely different properties from crystal sugar - it 's been " processed " and has cornstarch added , so you ca n't just substitute in equal quantities . Of course , it goes without saying that the taste is different as well . But even more important than the taste are the solubility characteristics which , as explained above , will have noticeable effects on other parts of the recipe . It does depend what you 're baking ; if the sugar is being used purely for flavouring , then you can use whatever sugar you like . Much of the time in baking though , sugar is used for more than just sweetening , and it 's important to be aware of that . If the sugar is being creamed or dissolved , do n't substitute unless you 're sure you know what you 're doing .
If by going bad you mean becoming unsuitable for consumption due to toxicity , sugar , when stored properly , does not go bad for at least a few years . By storing properly I mean storing it in conditions of low humidity , as it absorbs humidity ( water ) from the air . This property is called hygroscopy . However , it may lose some of its mechanical properties , form " rocks " , or even solidify into your sugar container . Theoretically very wet sugar can get infested with mold , but I have not seen it happen .
TLDR ; Yes . Sugar does inhibit growth of mold . How does this work ? Several reasons : Sugar prohibits growth through osmosis / dehydration . " The most notable is simple osmosis , or dehydration . Salt or sugar , whether in solid or aqueous form , attempts to reach equilibrium with the salt or sugar content of the food product with which it is in contact . " Source : <URL> Sugar weakens the molecular structure of pathogens ' DNA Salt and sugar 's other antimicrobial mechanisms include interference with a microbe 's enzyme activity and weakening the molecular structure of its DNA . Sugar may also provide an indirect form of preservation by serving to accelerate accumulation of antimicrobial compounds from the growth of certain other organisms . Source : <URL>
I use bleach to remove mold and mildew stains from my bathroom and while the process would be gross , I would think that once thoroughly washed the bleach would n't cause any harmful effects to the pan or to future snacking humans .
Sugar acts as a stabilizer in the heating process of eggs . It acts as a bit of " insurance " to keep the eggs from curdling under the moderate heat during the cooking process . It is a necessary component in making citrus curds .
No , sugar will never turn sour after long cooking , no matter how long you cook it . This must be some myth . If you take your sugar beyond caramel and into a burned stage , it can become acrid with a faintly sour taste . But this can not happen as long as there is any moisture in your food . The whole content of the pot will have to be a single black lump of charcoal before this occurs . It is not possible for the dissolved sugar in the soup to burn to this stage . Peter Taylor 's suggestion is interesting . In any fermentation process , sugar will be turned into acid . But cooking temperatures are way too high for a fermentation . You 'd have to keep the food for hours below 45 Celsius to sustain a bacterial or yeast colony ; it would flourish at even lower temperatures , around 37 Celsius , giving you obvious fermentation effects . This is a temperature which many people would find not hot enough for a bathtub , less alone to cook a soup . If the myth was born from this effect , it must come from a tradition in which the beans were soaked in warm water for hours , then cooked for a shorter time at higher temperatures , instead of being cooked all the time . There are other ingredients which should be added at the end , for example fresh herbs . They are likely to lose their flavor , not turn sour or something else . But this does n't apply to sugar , which has no aroma to speak of . Sugar also does n't get inverted by cooking . It stays as a single molecule ( sucrose ) until it starts reacting into more exotic stuff , undergoing complicated irreversible chemical reactions and turning into caramel . Inverting the sugar ( = breaking it into glucose and fructose ) is possible , but can not be done by temperature , it needs acid or seeding . Even if you were to invert some sugar with acid , it would 1 ) happen almost instantly , and 2 ) any sour taste will be due to the acid you used . Glucose and fructose are both sweet and not sour at all . So , if your sugar is getting inverted in the soup ( which will happen if you are already using other sour ingredients - but I ca n't imagine why you 'd do it if you want to avoid a sour taste ) it is not making it sour . So , I ca n't know what associations created this sugar-turns-sour myth , but it is n't true .
If you can not find these ingredients , it will be hard to get this type of icing made . The first thing is the liquid glucose . If you used any old thing labelled " syrup " , chances are that it contained water , and this is what made your mix a sugar . Liquid glucose is mostly sugar , with almost no wetness to it . Substituting something very wet will not work . Things which will work instead of glucose syrup are agave syrup , treacles , corn syrup , mollasses , golden syrup and honey . You should be aware that most of those will give you a more or less strong coloring and will have a bit of taste on its own . It depends on the type of your cupcakes whether the taste fits them . Corn syrup and golden syrup will be the best alternatives , but they are also less popular around the world . The other thing is the sugar . It absolutely must be in a powdered form . Crystals wo n't work . If you have a food processor , just put the crystalized sugar in there and process it . Use it immediately , or it will fuse together due to air moisture . But you may still be able to find icing sugar . It is just another word for powdered sugar , and it is used in Middle Eastern cuisine ( your profile says Lebanon ) , for example for dusting lokum , but also in some halva recipes . If you can find a confectioner who does these things , you can ask them for a source of powdered sugar . If you can not find ingredients which produce an acceptable quality of icing , you can also try other types of icing recipes for decoration . Most do use powdered sugar for easier incorporation , but some are made with sugar dissolved in a liquid .
It 's to prevent caking . See , for example , <URL> : It is not recommended to substitute confectioners sugar for granulated sugar . Since confectioners sugar has a much finer texture , and it contains a small percentage of cornstarch to prevent caking , substituting can give you unexpected results . Many shredded cheeses include corn starch for the same reason .
Your question seems to be conflating the question of bag vs boxed brown sugar with the question of " Brownulated " light brown sugar vs. regular light brown sugar . Brownulated pours like white sugar , but turns into a paste when it gets damp or wet . I think it tastes funny . Boxed vs Bag sugar is just a matter of storage and convenience . It 's the same sugar .
The recipes that I have seen did n't have much sugar and it is universally in the dressing . The dressings are mayonnaise based and a small amount of sugar gives them another facet to their flavor . This dressing reminds me of a simple coleslaw dressing which will include the mayo and sugar as well as buttermilk and lemon . Because the sugar is in the dressing it will apply to all the layers equally so there is no particular layer that should be sweetened more than the others . Keep in mind that this salad is southern cuisine which tends to value flavor over nutrition . Sometimes to a fault , of course . The sugar serves no mechanical purpose . It will eventually pull some the liquid out of the vegetables but , as there is so little and the dressing is not mixed in , the effect would be negligible . If you prefer the salad to be less sweet and are not worried about authenticity feel free to leave the sugar out . Alternatively if you would like to throw authenticity to the wind altogether you could leave in the sugar and add buttermilk and lemon juice to the dressing and give the salad more of a coleslaw-like zing .
They 're good pretty much forever . There is not enough available water for things to grow in there . Mind you , the more aromatic and subtle parts of the flavor will dissipate over time . The sugar absorbs water , giving the combination a very low water activity , meaning there 's little water available for microorganisms to use in growth . As long as your flavoring pieces are small and well mixed with sugar they will not spoil .
I ca n't back this up with any evidence , but I think the reason it does n't work well is that at the temperature required to caramelize sugar , the other " impurities " in brown sugar will be burned and gross . You might be able to get a similar effect by making regular white-sugar caramel and then mixing in molasses after it has begun to cool .
Assuming the rind chunks are fairly large , you could use a colander with fairly large holes or a metal sieve .
High fructose corn syrup is a preservative . While sugaring your ketchup is good for flavor , HFCS is great for shelf stability , as is the vinegar . The reasons you typically see HFCS in American Ketchups is that it is ( 1 ) heavily subsidized and domestic and cheap , ( 2 ) farmed by the same companies making the tomatoes , and ( 3 ) a preservative . Also , it helps to improve flow while maintaining viscosity . Sugar generally can be used to cut the acidity in a tomato dish without inhibiting the taste or outshining the tomato . My stepfather had digestion issues with high acidity meals and swore by a teaspoon or two of sugar to help aid the stomach issues . Likewise , the acidity of ketchup may well be mitigated by all the sugar .
end question
start question
How to obtain rennet ?
The easiest way where I live to get rennet is to buy Junket tablets at the grocery store . If they have it it 's near the ice cream toppings . You can buy it online from the company . It 's very cheap and although not 100 % pure rennet it works just fine for the variety of cheeses I have made . The box of tablets comes with reliable recipes for a variety of cheeses and ice cream . Online cheese making suppliers can sell you " higher quality " rennet that is much more expensive . This may make sense for you - especially if you are buying from them anyway for specialized bacteria or mold to make a particular cheese like swiss , etc. . I ca n't recommend one in particular but they are easy to find . You can make your own . I would n't recommend it . Rennet is an enzyme used by calves to digest their mother 's milk . Historically , when a calf was slaughtered the correct stomach ( I believe the first ) would be chopped up and soaked for some time in water . The stomach was then removed and the water with dissolved rennet would be used to make cheese . If you have access to a calf and have a tougher constitution than I you could certainly try this . Nowadays rennet is mostly recombinantly produced . For those opposed to our genetically-modified-bacteria-friends non-recombinant rennet can be found . Vegetarian rennet derived from vegetables or mold with similar properties is also available . Recombinant is , of course , much less expensive .
Your polenta was probably sticking because you did n't use enough oil or your barbecue was too cool . Olive oil on a barbecue is a bad idea as it flares up and burns easily , you 're better off with a more standard vegetable oil . The choice of oil is not as important as the quantity in keeping things from sticking , you need to use a lot of it . I use a high temperature silicone to baste the barbecue surface with a lot of oil when I need things not to stick , some use a halved onion dipped in oil to apply it to the grill . Also oil your food . Your barbecue surface could also be too cool . If it 's too cool the surface of the polenta block wo n't form a crust quickly enough and will adhere to the grill . It should be hot enough that you ca n't hold the back of your hand over it for more than 2-3 seconds . Other factors in frying or grilling polenta are the thickness of the polenta , the temperature of the polenta , and the thickness of the mix . You want to be grilling thick slabs of still fridge-temperature polenta that was on the gloopy side when cooked .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
The fastest way would be simply to boil them in salted water for a few minutes . Throwing them on ashes ( a barbecue ? ) would do the trick also , but I guess you might want to leave them there for more than a few minutes to ensure they were cooked throughout , and theres a bigger danger they 'd overcook .
Regarding your questions : 1 ) How can the bread be cut with the least amount of crumbles ? Traditionally migas de pastor ( shepherd 's migas ) were the result of rubbing a piece or very dry bread with a couple of rough hands . If you do n't rough hands , another way is rubbing 2 halves ( lengthways ) of a bread stick . This way the migas are all crumbs , but those are traditional migas . If you want to chop the bread and have dices of bread to fry : Traditional recipes call for dicing bread the day before you cook migas . I advise you to dice the bread ( size of normal dice would be fine , bigger would be ok too ) when the bread is still soft . Because , if bread is too dry can be even a bit dangerous to chop ... ( does it depend on the bread type , the time the bread has gone stale , should the bread be fresh or completely dry , etc ) Type of bread : Tradicional recipes call for breads such as chiabatta / candeal . These breads have a strong crust . Nowadays , breads like baguette or , if you 're living in Spain , the common " pistolas " are ok too ( and easier to chop / dice too ) . Time for bread going stale : it depends of the real quality of bread and your living location . Meaning : the more artisan the bread is , the longer time time would need to go stale . A common bread is normally not so good , so it really depends where you live . Regarding your location : If you live close to the sea , bread would go even softer , like chewing gum , do n't expect like stone-stale bread . If you live in a drier environment , it will get dry and stale in a couple of days . I would wait much time , because believe me it is really difficult to chop and dice when bread gets very dry . Therefore , experience is the key for every migas cook ! I know it 's not very exact , but that 's the way it is ... About purchasing the bread fresh or not : In Spain , in places where migas are a very common dish , you can find diced migas ready to fry in a normal supermarket . Outside these regions , you would only find normal " fresh " bread . How can you fry the bread in such a way that the outside is fried and the inside is moist ? ( is there an amount of water that can be measured , how hot should the pan be , which pan should be used , how much oil should be used ) Water and oil needed : Any spanish granny would say that there is no measure for this ... crazy , huh ? I found some recipes which call for 1 glass of water ( 250 ml ) per half bread stick . Some recipes say to wait 12 hours to moisture bread , some others do n't ... Oil : this is really your choice . I advise to cover the base of a frying pan with olive oil and some garlic cloves , when it is hot , add the diced bread and cover bread with oil . If you see oil has n't moisture all the bread in the pan , add some more , little by little . Greasy migas are not so good ... About the pan : it is better to use a pan like <URL> , not so deep not so flat either . Oh , and you did n't say anything about chorizo or panceta ( fresh bacon ) . Without them migas are not real ;) Fried them before adding to the migas . Hope this helps !!
Probably the easiest way to do it is to just gently pour the blackberries into a basket strainer , then lower the strainer into a bowl of water . Then you can just lift the strainer out and the berries will come with it , no fishing required .
The easiest way where I live to get rennet is to buy Junket tablets at the grocery store . If they have it it 's near the ice cream toppings . You can buy it online from the company . It 's very cheap and although not 100 % pure rennet it works just fine for the variety of cheeses I have made . The box of tablets comes with reliable recipes for a variety of cheeses and ice cream . Online cheese making suppliers can sell you " higher quality " rennet that is much more expensive . This may make sense for you - especially if you are buying from them anyway for specialized bacteria or mold to make a particular cheese like swiss , etc. . I ca n't recommend one in particular but they are easy to find . You can make your own . I would n't recommend it . Rennet is an enzyme used by calves to digest their mother 's milk . Historically , when a calf was slaughtered the correct stomach ( I believe the first ) would be chopped up and soaked for some time in water . The stomach was then removed and the water with dissolved rennet would be used to make cheese . If you have access to a calf and have a tougher constitution than I you could certainly try this . Nowadays rennet is mostly recombinantly produced . For those opposed to our genetically-modified-bacteria-friends non-recombinant rennet can be found . Vegetarian rennet derived from vegetables or mold with similar properties is also available . Recombinant is , of course , much less expensive .
I remain extremely skeptical that there is a right or wrong way to dress , pick up , eat , or otherwise deal with sushi . A <URL> for " is there a right way to eat sushi " turns up hundreds of pages , many with contradictory information . If there is a " right " way , it 's most certainly dictated by the locale or restaurant you 're in or the people you 're with . My advice is to do whatever you want , particularly if you 're paying for the meal . If you 're a guest , follow the lead of your hosts . But do n't sweat it . Enjoy it ! UPDATE since the original question has been edited ... what is the better way to dress sushi and sashimi . " Better " is still difficult to define for everyone , and will vary by each person 's taste . Something that " enhances " flavors for me may be completely unacceptable to you , and vice-versa . There 's no accounting for taste ! But since you made an effort to clarify your question , I am updating my answer accordingly . Sometimes the " better " dressing is none at all . This is particularly true for Unagi or others that have some kind of sauce already applied ( though I know some people who dip Unagi in soy sauce and claim it is great ) . I have a daughter with soy allergy , so she can not use soy sauce at all and does n't like wasabi . She enjoys eating salmon and tuna nigiri pieces completely plain . I 've tried it myself , and with good , fresh fish it is really good . I have heard of people dipping the pickled ginger in the soy sauce and using that as a kind of " brush " to gently apply soy sauce to the topping . That may be " better " if you are adept with chopsticks and enjoy pickled ginger along with soy . Some people dip only the topping into the soy sauce , to avoid getting the rice saturated . This is a little easier to do if you use your fingers to pick up the sushi pieces ( and according to <URL> this is perfectly acceptable for sushi ) ( but <URL> ) . Some people mix wasabi ( sometimes , copious amounts ) in with the soy sauce and dip the sushi into that mixture . Some suggest that <URL> .
Properly ? You throw it in a pit with hard wood coals for at least 8 hours . Of course we do n't refer to that as roasting . :) Oven roasting is easier . Turn the oven on to 250F or so . Put something flavorful on the roast . Stick in a probe thermometer and put it in the oven . Remove when the thermometer reads 150F . Let it rest for a few minutes before carving . For more color and fat rendering you can roast at 450F for 10 minutes before dropping the oven to 250F and putting in the thermometer . Flavorings are varied of course . Apple works well .
I have the brand of juicer ( Champion ) mentioned by the OP in comments . It 's a rather unusual design that is n't used by most other companies . They are somewhat notorious for producing a lot of foam . I bought it perhaps 15 years ago , but rarely use it for this reason . ( It still has other uses other than juicing . ) Anyhow , the solution I found to this problem was simply to strain the juice through a fine-mesh sieve . It wo n't go quickly and will get clogged with the pulp , so you 'll need to a take a spoon or something and stir it around to force the juice through . It takes a long time , but it 's effective because the bubbles dissipate when they go through the sieve . Given the construction of these types of juicers , I would generally just place a bowl underneath and a large sieve in the bowl to catch the juice coming out . After finishing juicing , you can turn off the machine and then spend 5 minutes stirring and straining to get rid of the foam . I have seen others on the internet mention success using a French press to do a similar straining action to destroy the foam . I tried it once but it did n't seem to work as well ( perhaps the stirring action within the sieve also assists with the foam ) . Nevertheless , it still made an improvement .
Cut the tomato in half at the midsection or equator ( stem end being the " north pole " ) to expose the seed cavities . Holding the cut side down over your garbage bowl or trash can , gently squeeze to remove the seeds . You can easily pry out stubborn seeds with your fingertips . Place the tomato half cut-side up on the cutting board ( Cutting waxy skinned vegetables is much easier when the skin is on the bottom so the force of the knive cuts cleanly through the skin with less effot ) and cut in half again . After doing this with both pieces the tomato will be in quarters . If you want evenly diced pieces of just the exterior flesh ( such as for sprinkling on a plate for a garnish ) , then use your knife to cut out the interior portion so that just the tomato " shell " remains . You can then easily dice the exterior shell . Otherwise , after cutting into quarters just gently push down to flatten each quarter and cut into strips lengthwise and then cut cross-wise to finish the process . While cumbersome to explain in text , it 's much safer and quicker than cutting the tomato into slices and then trying to dice from there .
This recipe for <URL> has instructions for cleaning them . You can either cut off the heads , or if you choose to retain them : Make a shallow cut along the head , being careful not to cut too deep and puncture the innards . Carefully but firmly pull out everything inside . Cut the head off , turn it inside out and use a knife to scrape away the innards . In both cases , if a small black , triangular beak does not come out along with everything else , then push your finger up through the middle of the body and the beak should pop out . As explained in <URL> , you will want to cook octopus very briefly so it does not get rubbery , or for a long time , to move past the rubbery stage . If , as mentioned in the question , you wish to fry them , the cooking time may be <URL> . Some recipes suggest <URL> per side . For specific recipes , you can google " baby octopus recipe " .
This is one of the reasons I hate working with liquid lecithin - it 's the most viscous and sticky substance I 've ever had in my kitchen ( or , frankly , anywhere ) . Prevention seems to be the best approach ; try not to let the lecithin directly touch any utensils or cooking surface . Grease up your spoons , preferably with something reasonably solid at room temperature like coconut oil , butter , or margarine . That makes the lecithin slide off more easily , and you only need to clean off the grease afterward ( i.e. with soap ) . The only way I 've been able to clean surfaces or utensils coated with the lecithin itself is lots and lots and lots of warm water and paper towels . Warm water is important since lecithin does not dissolve very well in cold water . Good luck - personally , on the infrequent occasion that I need lecithin these days , I just stick to the granules .
A crisp crepe is less about the recipe and more about the cooking technique . You simply need to leave it a little longer before flipping it , allowing the edges to crisp . A little more oil than usual will help , but it should still only be a thin coating wiped on with a paper towel . To make a thicker crepe , simply use less liquid . You can also look at using alternative flours like buckwheat which alter the texture .
I would actually recommend the opposite of what was said above . Since the meat is so thin you may have much better results pan searing it in an extremely hot pan from slightly frozen . This way the outermost layer will start to undergo the maillard reaction long before the inside of the steak reaches a medium-rare temp and will give you a better chance of preventing it from overcooking . This link provides an overview of the process for a much larger piece of meat then your using but the searing process is what your concerned most with since your steaks are so thin . You will likely have to play with the timing a little bit with regards to how frozen the steak needs to start out but I figure erring on the side of too frozen is best since you can then heat them in the oven to the internal temp your looking for . <URL>
I find that brushes and even paper towels are too rough on mushrooms . I use cold running water and gentle rubbing by hand .
According to the <URL> Domino 's uses a blend of Mozzarella , American , Cheddar , Feta , Parmesan , and Provolone Cheeses . Somebody , apparently , with similar concerns asked Domino 's and <URL> : excerpt from letter , emphasis added : Domino 's Pizza Diced Cheese for Pizza is a specially produced cheese made exclusively for our use . It is a natural dairy product , produced from cultured , pasteurized milk , rennet ; and salts of calcium and/or sodium . The type of rennet used in the production of this cheese is restricted to a microbial-based rennet or a genetically-engineered rennet . Animal derived rennets will not be allowed . As far as the other cheeses ( Cheddar , Parmesan , Provolone , etc. ) , Domino 's does not specify the source of rennet used in these products . They may or may not contain animal rennet . This depends on the supplier 's current source and is always subject to change without notification to Domino 's Pizza .
If you can find it , the best stuff is industrial Viking degreaser or oven cleaner , undiluted . It 's what we use in restaurants , because a tiny amount will dissolve even the toughest grease with minimal scrubbing . It 's toxic and corrosive ( it 'll do to skin what it does to grease ) , so use it carefully and rinse very well , but the stuff is magic . Positively magic -- spray a little on and then use a pot sprayer and the grease and grime just rinses off . I swear they suck the souls from babies to power the black magic contained in those bottles . Failing that , a prolonged soak in boiling hot water with a ton of concentrated dish soap will loosen grease . " Magic eraser " scrubbing blocks work wonders for scrubbing off grease too , and take less elbow grease than the other scouring things . Note : degreaser is not for normal use on pots and pans , just for hard to clean greasy buildup , such as you see on ovens , stovetops , and friers .
The proportions on everything look correct ( including the milk ! ) EXCEPT that is a very small amount of butter for 3C flour . There is also no sugar in that recipe -- and even a very small amount of sugar will change the texture of the dough . I personally would triple the amount of butter , add 2-3T sugar , and then re-try the recipe . VERY cold butter will also help with a lighter finished baked scone . As for the comment that the oven time is too hot and long -- the temperature is good -- but I would think the baking time would fall more in the range of 15-20 minutes , depending upon whether you are baking from frozen dough or freshly made scone dough . A hot oven , as opposed to a moderate oven ( 350 degrees F -- normal for cookies and cakes ) is recommended for biscuits and scones . Since all ovens bake differently , rely less on the actual time and more on how the scone looks -- it should be lightly golden on top and not doughy in appearance in the center . A cake tester can be used to be certain that the center is fully baked . good luck -- it always seems to take a little effort to find the scone recipe that you think is perfect !!
Use a salted ice-water bath . The water increases the contact and heat dissipation , and adding salt allows the temperature to go below freezing .
end question
start question
Can I par-bake this pot pie recipe ?
As far as I can see , you do n't defrost the pie before baking in the recipe so some of the time in the oven would just be defrosting the pie ; so this could be done in advance by bringing it out of the freezer an hour and a half before baking say . As the chicken is already cooked it looks like all you 're doing is cooking the pastry so you could just use thinner pastry which would cook quicker , or better you could use layers of phyllo pasty which would cook a lot quicker but of course would n't puff up like the puff pastry . If you follow this it could probably bake for just 25 minutes or there about . Hope this helps !
Most of the things in this are very easy to substitute . Roses lime juice is sweet and non-alcoholic ( and can be found in most supermarkets ) . You can easily sub in heavy cream for Baileys : they do n't taste the same , but chemically they react about the same . Grenadine is just a pomegranate juice simple syrup . No alcohol there at all . The only question is what you want to sub for the strawberry vodka . Some kind of soda , most likely . It 's a question of taste . It wo n't be easy to get something that is both fruity and clear , but you might try white cranberry juice , or white grape juice .
I would n't bake them in , for a start , as I would n't be confident of what the bootlaces would do in the oven . Thinking about it , a possible way of going about it is to ' thread ' the bootlaces through the cake before you ice it . Cut the cake in half ( vertically ) , get a big needle like a darning needle or something similar , and ( carefully ) thread a few laces through , cutting them off flush with the surface , then stick the cake back together with icing or jam and pipe on the outer icing . The tricky thing will be getting them to follow curvy paths . The other thing you could do is use said needle ( or perhaps a chopstick ) to poke little tunnels through the cake , then pipe red jam into them . This would perhaps give a nicer result - it might be a bit odd to be eating a slice of cake and then to suddenly be chewing a rubbery bootlace .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
( Disregard previous version : I did not notice this recipe had no wheat flour . ) This recipe gets all of its structure from oats . Instant oats are pre-hydrolized , so that they cook faster . Regular oats are just the natural oat , perhaps cut , and rolled flat . They need more moisture and time to hydrolize . The recipe will probably work , perhaps with a slightly different texture . They may bake faster due to the fact that the oats are already hydrolyzed . If you choose recipe where the structure comes from wheat flour , the type of oats will matter less .
Chicken fat is what you want , and -- this is important -- no cream or milk . Use chicken fat to make a roux , and then chicken stock . This will get you a yellowish colour . For extra bonus points , make your pastry with schmaltz as well . They do this at the gourmet supermarket down the road , and their chicken pot pies fly off the shelves .
Generally that sort of treatment is to get rid of any moisture the stone may have taken on during storage/handling -- if it were n't kept dry , there could be moisture deep in the stone that would not be an issue in normal home use . I would expect the instructions were also that you should put the stone in the cold oven then turn it on -- that would be the safest way to do the whole process , avoiding thermal shock , etc. . There might be some proprietary reason to do this also , but my vote goes to driving out deeply absorbed moisture .
I 'd avoid the whole reheating issue altogether and simply keep the uncooked pie in the fridge , covered in plastic wrap , then bake it as normal when ready . The only issue you might have is if your filling is very runny , in which case you could par-bake it a little before filling to help it ' seal ' .
A difference I see between your recipe and other alternatives is that you do n't have any other starch besides your rice . Other recipes include a good amount of tapioca or potato starch . The other difference was that other recipes used rice flour instead of rice . You might also want to consider a change in technique . You can make rice noodles like a crepe rather than in an oiled steamer pan . Simply use a non-stick or oiled crepe pan , put in batter to crepe thickness , and let it cook until it begins to pull away from the edge of the pan . Invert and release in one motion onto a cutting board and slice .
My friend makes coconut crusts all the time and she bakes them at 350 degrees . But AllRecipes.com bakes their crust at 325 degrees for 15 minutes .
It makes no difference whether you use sheet or powdered . Just make sure to use the right amount . It should be given on the package , like " this sachet is enough for 500 ml liquid " . You can try to use less than indicated for a softer texture , but if you do n't use enough , it will stay liquid , so you may need to experiment until you get it right . You ca n't bake gelatin . It is a protein and denaturates at 50 ° C . The proper way is to bake your pie or fruit cake as always , and after it is ready , pour the gelatin containing liquid over the fruits and wait for it to congeal . ( I am assuming here that you just want a gelatin glaze over a complete pie . If you want a complete gelatinized filling , everything below applies . Bake a shell , put the fruit in it , then fill it with the liquid ) . The liquid itself can be pure water , or water syrup , or , if you used canned fruit , you can catch the liquid from the can and strain it . Then use it , pure or diluted with water . Sugar of food coloring do n't interfere with gelatin , use them as you see fit ( I think it 's popular to color the gelatin on strawberry cakes a light red ) . The mixing is very similar to panna cotta . First , bloom your gelatin by putting it into a cup with some water ( 1-2 tbsp ) and leaving it for awhile . It should soak up the water , use it while it still looks moist , before the granules stick to each other . It usually takes around 5 minutes . Meanwhile , warm your liquid on a very low setting . It is best to use a thermometer . Dump the gelatine into the liquid while still on the heat . Stir until dissolved completely , never let it get too warm . When dissolved , remove from the heat and pour immediately . There are n't many things which interfere with gelatin , but some fruits ( or the enzymes in them ) do . These tend to be tropical fruits with at least moderate acidity , like papaya , mango , kiwi and pineapple . If you pour gelatine on them when they are raw , it will have trouble setting . Cooking them should help , but I do n't know how long or what temperature . If they are canned , it should be OK . Bananas are not a problem , even when raw . And because you said you want to make it " professional " : If you are talking about a thin glaze , gelatin is not your only choice . You can use starch as a thickener , many professional bakeries do so . It eliminates the possibility of getting the right texture of the glaze ( which will be rubbery with too much gelatine and half liquid if you do n't use enough ) , and maybe you 'll feel more comfortable with it .
<URL> should definitely work if you follow it correctly . Comparing your recipe to it might tell you what you did wrong . From the information you already gave , it seems certain that you did n't cook it long enough ( as rumtscho said in the comments ) . Other things that could have been wrong : oven not hot enough ( your oven might not be as hot as you think ) water not hot enough when added to the rice ( Alton Brown 's recipe calls for it to be boiling ; I do n't know about yours ) too much water/too little rice dish too small ( if the water is deep , it wo n't heat as fast in the oven ) ( thanks to Aaronnut , see the comments ) non-metal casserole dishes take a while to heat up Given your updates , well , basically I have no idea how that recipe would ever have worked . As you saw , the water was n't even hot enough yet after half an hour . If you poured the water in boiling , it might have had a fighting chance , but it still would probably not have been long enough . Cooking it uncovered is weird , too - it means that once it 's hot , you 'll start losing a lot of water to evaporation . The recipe on the bag likely has you cook it covered on the stove , so clearly you should n't be using the same amount of water with it uncovered . As for the amount of water ... 1:2.5 really sounds like too much water to me . I 've seen some people online claiming that 1:2 is right for white rice , and brown rice needs more water , but in my experience that 's a recipe for soggy , watery rice . ( Edit : Of course I was basing that on covered rice ; rumtscho rightly points out in the comments that for uncovered rice you 'd need even more , since you lose some as I mentioned . ) So if I were you , I 'd forget about the recipe you used , and try the one I linked to . Many people ( including me ) have had reliable success with it .
This really is n't a good substitution . Think of the difference between fresh peas and dried split peas - they are two completely different products . But if you are really set on doing this , simply soak and cook the dried limas like you would any other dried bean , then add the fully cooked lima at the same stage that that recipe calls for the fresh beans .
Do n't think of that as dough . This looks like basically making a quiche base to put pizza toppings on . I do n't see any reason to think this recipe wo n't be stable but it wo n't be anything like pizza crust . Still it sounds tasty .
You want something hot and very slightly herby , without smoke . For heat , a moderate amount of cayenne is the easiest option . For the herby notes , I might go with something like marjoram or rosemary , but frankly given the cilantro and mint I probably would n't bother .
As far as I can see , you do n't defrost the pie before baking in the recipe so some of the time in the oven would just be defrosting the pie ; so this could be done in advance by bringing it out of the freezer an hour and a half before baking say . As the chicken is already cooked it looks like all you 're doing is cooking the pastry so you could just use thinner pastry which would cook quicker , or better you could use layers of phyllo pasty which would cook a lot quicker but of course would n't puff up like the puff pastry . If you follow this it could probably bake for just 25 minutes or there about . Hope this helps !
Short answer - not really . Fat is an essential component in any cake , and milk just is n't very fatty - about 5 % for whole milk . You can make cakes with milk , but they require totally different recipes : you ca n't simply substitute milk for oil . Bear in mind that you 're distributing the cup of oil throughout a whole cake , so that any one slice will only have a fraction of the oil . I assume you 'll also be sharing the cake with others , so you 'll be ' spreading the calories ' somewhat . You should be using a neutral oil like canola ( rapeseed ) oil anyway , as it has a relatively mild flavour . A popular alternative these days is to substitute all but a couple of tablespoons of the oil with apple sauce ( really ) , but this can be hit and miss and does n't work with all recipes - it usually works best with things like quick breads ( scones etc ) . Of course , there 's also the point that cakes are supposed to be a treat , and they 'd be less of a treat without the fat , in which case why bother ? If you want to be healthy , make a salad . If you want a treat , make a cake and do n't worry about the contents too much .
If you have oven safe noodle bowls ( ceramic , not plastic ) then line them , as you describe with the foil , but do not remove them from the bowls . Bake your pie in the lined bowls , then remove the finished pies , with their aluminum " pan " intact . Or just make pasties ... no pan required . As you indicate you do n't have oven safe bowls and it must be a pie , I decided to experiment , using the double foil idea . I have heavy duty foil . I used a double layer and lined a noodle bowl making sure that there was plenty of foil out past the edge . I then pressed another noodle bowl on top of the two sheets of foil to make sure all is acting as a unit . While the top bowl is still in place , crumple up the excess foil , making a rim . This is what will give you the strength you need . I would then take the top bowl out , and line the now stable foil pie tin with your pie pastry . Fill the pie and if there is a top crust , finish the pie . You can now take the pie out of the noodle bowl and bake it as usual , although I would certainly do it on a baking sheet . The double foil is much stronger than you 'd expect , but the stability comes from the rim you build with the excess foil hanging over the edge . Here 's the finished bowl with the two molding bowls .
What you need is to deflect the heat from the top of your pie . If you have two racks in your oven , and can position them so that the pie is in the middle with a rack above it , place a piece of aluminum foil directly above the pie . Another option would be to set a piece of foil on top of the pie after it has partially baked . Either way will protect the top from direct heat , allowing the ambient heat to penetrate and bake the whole pie .
I can see this as being similar to a sweet potato pie . Best bet in that case would be to cook the carrots , then puree and mix with eggs , milk , etc. just as if it were a sweet potato or pumpkin pie . Two alternatives that come to mind would be to treat it like a fruit pie , as you say . Because of the texture of the carrots , I would grate them with the large holes on a box grater , toss with sugar , raisins , some tapioca and whatever spices your heart leads you toward . An alternative would be to make a molded gelatin like pie , similar to a refrigerator lime pie . Lots of gelatin and grated carrots . I , personally , would n't like it , but I am not fond of jello with carrots in it either . Happy experimenting .
end question
start question
Why isnt my salt about 39 % Sodium ?
Minerals , naturally found in salt whether it 's mined or evaporated ; and believe it or not , water . <URL> In the US , the FDA requires that salt must not contain more than 2.5 % minerals other than NaCl and still call itself salt . That 2.5 % does not include water . <URL> Your numbers for sodium content seem a bit low , but not extremely so , especially for a very unrefined , wet salt . The more refined the salt , the less trace minerals it will contain . Outside the US , it 's possible that your salt also contains added iodine , fluoride , folic acid and/or anti-caking agents , but in the US those would be listed among the ingredients , and would be included in that 2.5 % . Only iodine and anti-caking agents are common in the US . Plus , nutritional information labels have legal margins of error . If and when they can , they 'll be slick . Lower sodium looks good on a nutritional label .
It 's caused by the high amount of potassium in the banana . Microwaves react with metals , bouncing off and cause arcing . You can even create a cool light show by putting a raw peeled banana in the microwave . Do n't worry , it wo n't explode , but it will make a mess , it 's also harmless . This can also happen in some <URL> depending on the soil conditions they grew in . As noted in the linked article , other high concentrations of metals such as magnesium , iron , and zinc can be the responsible mineral . Momentary brief sparking is harmless and wo n't harm your microwave , but the USDA recommends turning off your microwave if you see sparks nonetheless . If it does start a fire , unless it 's a very small fire , do not open your microwave door . The safest thing is to turn off the microwave and let the fire burn itself out by consuming all the oxygen . Opening the door could create a dangerous backdraft induced fireball . Edit : Found a <URL> . See Also : <URL> <URL>
Kosher salt is pure , like table salt , but without any iodine and ( usually ) without any anti-caking agents . Kosher salt crystals are also coarse , but flat , which makes them easy to dissolve or season/coat meat . Unprocessed sea salt is simply coarse ; the shape of the crystals ( whole or ground ) does not stick to meat particularly well and the impurities make it harder to dissolve properly in water . It does n't usually have minerals added ( unless it 's a really cheap kind possibly made from pre-iodized table salt ) , it just does n't have minerals removed like table salt . Kosher salt and sea salt are definitely not the same thing . Kosher salt can come from seawater , like sea salt , but the " kosher " part is all about the size and shape of the crystals , not their source . Sea salt is not a good idea for brining . It 's expensive and inefficient , and by the time the meat is cooked , any distinctness of flavour will have completely disappeared . Some of the minerals may even burn , depending on the cooking method . Instead , use kosher salt or table salt for brining and add sea salt as a seasoning afterward if you want . Using sea salt for cooking , brining , or other preparation is simply wasting it .
Kosher salt is the same thing ( though I 'm pretty sure it 's not iodized ) , but the crystals are less dense and larger . There 's more air in each piece , and they do n't pack together as tightly . That means you have to put a larger volume of kosher to get the same amount of actual sodium chloride ( salt ) . Think of it as the difference between ice cubes ( regular salt ) and snow ( kosher ) . Both are water , but ice cubes are way denser than a scoop of snow . When melting it , you 'll need more volume of snow to come out to the same amount of water as you 'd get from a few ice cubes . So no , it 's not worse for you .
I 'm not sure what causes the bowing to be more pronounced from one cooking method versus another , but the solution is to put a thumbprint indentation in the middle , creating a slight " donutted " shape . This will help to ensure you get the " patty " shape you want .
Citric acid and sodium hexametaphosphate are often used in processed cheese as emulsifier . These <URL> improve the protein 's swelling capacity and emulsification and thus inhibits the leakage of water or fat from the product ( forms <URL> ) . Some salts are also acid buffers . 1 In this <URL> ( in German , but chemical names are quite similiar to the Engish ones ) is a list of possible substitutes of citric acid and sodium hexametaphosphate . Or just look <URL> ( in English ) for E 325 , E 326 , E 327 , E 331 , E 332 , E 333 , E 339 , E 340 , E 341 , E 450 , E 451 , E 452 . The receipe of the cheese sauce has the <URL> 2 . 1 Source : <URL> My bad attempt to translate this article :-\ 2 " Processed cheese [ ... ] is a food product made from cheese ( and sometimes other , unfermented , dairy by-product ingredients ) ; plus emulsifiers [ note from me : the mentioned salts ] , saturated vegetable oils , extra salt , food colorings , and/or whey [ note from me : or watery liquids like water or milk ] or sugar . "
If the yeast is n't out of date then the most likely sounding culprit is the temperature of your water . It should be between 105-110 . If it 's too cool then you wo n't activate the yeast and if you get it too warm you 'll start to kill it . Another possible case can be when you 're adding the salt . If it 's going in before or at the same time as the sugar you will arrest the gas production and activity of the yeast . Get the yeast , sugar , water mixture going first and create a shaggy dough with your flour . Add the salt as you 're starting to bring the dough together so that it does n't act too quickly to arrest the yeast development . If you keep your flour in the freezer or refrigerator , make sure it has come to room temperature before adding it to the water or the chill of the flour will de-activate the yeast .
Your experience with the curry is normal . Salt helps bring out and enhance existing flavors . This is true for everyone , as far as I know . Different people have different sensitivities , and want different amounts , but the effect is the same . Given that you thought the curry tasted better with it , I would n't be surprised if you should also be adding salt to other things - maybe just not as much as recipes typically call for .
Hojicha is a green tea which is made from bancha , a low grade green tea , and cooked slightly ; this very inexpensive green tea often comes out brown because it is discolored by oxidation . Other than this variety , and some very stale bancha , I ca n't think of a Japanese green tea that comes out brown . Some stale kukicha might come out brown , and low quality genmaicha made with poor quality kukicha could be brownish from the combination of excess oxidation and the toasted rice . Most of the non-Japanese green teas I 've seen sold as " green tea " and some lower quality teabags marked as " sencha " are broken down tea leaves that can easily oxidize in the packaging to the point where they are , at best , yellowish . However , if you use even a moderate quality sencha , and it is n't stale , it should come out green . Most good quality kukicha and genmaicha will at least come out greenish-yellow . Since most Japanese restaurants use a fairly inexpensive second-harvest sencha , I imagine you 're either buying hojicha or simply using a very stale , low-quality sencha . Chinese green teas are sometimes slightly yellow , but if they 're actually yielding a brown brew , they , too are either stale or are simply mislabeled oolong . I used to sell a fair amount of green tea when I ran a small scale import business . I do recall even matcha products turning brown after being exposed to excessive sunlight ; one of the bakeries I know was constantly running into issues with their matcha pound cake slices on sunny days , especially those pieces in the front of their pastry case . So it 's reasonably possible you simply have tea which has been stored improperly ; you 're best off with a nitrogen flushed tea and it should be used within about 6 months of opening the sealed package . If your tea comes unsealed , it probably is n't in very good shape to begin with . In any event , my recommendation is to try a first-harvest high-mountain grown sencha that is sold in nitrogen-flushed aluminum packages . Depending on the style , the brewed color will be either very green or slightly yellowish if brewed in the typical way . You can either do a very brief , several second infusion at near-boiling , or a longer infusion at around 80 celsius . I like it both ways . Gyokuro , if you can afford it , is extraordinarily green , but is unlikely to be served at a restaurant without an additional charge ( it 's essentially the same leaves used to make matcha , except rolled instead of being milled ) .
A few general reasons : As soegaard says , the salt is often better distributed through the food if it 's added during cooking . This is especially true for foods which have been carefully assembled ; you ca n't always just stir things up ! Some foods also take a while for flavors to soak through ; think about potatoes in a chunky soup . If you add salt only at the table , the liquid will benefit , but the potatoes will generally taste bland , like they were unsalted . Then there are things where it really needs to be cooked in - I doubt many people want to sprinkle salt on a chocolate chip cookie . Sometimes the quantities need to be pretty small , so mixing a small amount into the whole recipe is doable , while if you tried to add it at the table , even a little sprinkle would be too much . Baked goods are a good example here too . Virtually everyone likes at least a little salt , so it 's usually quite safe to add at least a little . The food will end up tasting good to many people , and then some can add more . Often the groups of people that we eat with have similar enough tastes that it 's a non-issue . Sometimes salt actually affects the cooking process , not just the flavor . It can help draw moisture out of sweating vegetables , softening them faster . It 's abrasive ( before dissolving , of course ) , and can help denature proteins . But of course , if you 're eating with people who do n't like much salt at all , and salt can easily be added at the table ( a pureed soup , for example ) , then there 's nothing wrong with waiting until then .
More likely is that he used the syrup that <URL> are stored in . It 's sometimes used by those who do n't know better in things like <URL> . It is bright , bright red , very sweet , very strongly flavored of cherries ( or more properly a sort of sickly , artificial interpretation of the flavor ) . I hope it 's obvious that I 'm not a fan of this stuff . If this was his first time making the drink , it seems likely that he misinterpreted the term <URL> , which is altogether different . It 's distilled from <URL> ( which are actually quite sour and bitter , not sweet ) and has a much more subtle , complex flavor . Quite frankly , I 'd consider this a pretty dumb error - it 's like using orange juice instead of orange liqueur . If the bar does n't carry maraschino liqueur , then they ca n't make a proper Last Word . Brands like Luxardo are pretty ubiquitous at good cocktail bars in the US these days , so there 's not much excuse for lacking it . My advice is either to buy this fellow a good craft cocktail book , or stick to ordering beer and wine from him from now on .
Pre-grated . Do n't use pre-grated cheese for any sauce where consistency matters . Pre-grated cheeses are almost universally coated with cellulose to prevent clumping . This will muck up a good sauce every time . If it 's going into a lasagna or a mac &amp; cheese though , chances are it will go unnoticed by any but the cook .
Saltpeter is potassium nitrate , which does not directly cure meats . Bacteria convert nitrate into nitrite , which is the real preservative . Saltpeter can be replaced by a smaller amount of nitrite to get the same curing effect ( most commercial cured meats do this ) , though a prolonged cure that converts nitrate into nitrite can develop more flavor . Tender Quick is not a direct substitute because it contains mostly salt . I 've heard that you can replace the salt in your recipe with Tender Quick , and drop the saltpeter , and have a success . You would have better luck finding a recipe that was meant to use Tender Quick , though . It is definitely possible to buy ( food-grade ! ) saltpeter . I would check online , or at specialty stores . It 's a little more difficult than picking it up at your local grocery store , of course . ( Chemistry lesson , courtesy of McGee : nitrate ( NO3 ) is converted to nitrite ( NO2 ) , which then reacts to form nitric oxide ( NO ) , which bonds to myoglobin in the meat , which turns it pink and prevents oxidation . Nitric oxide is also present in smoke , which gives that " pink ring " around the outside of smoked meats . )
Rubbery chicken is normally a sign that it is overcooked . Frying is a challenging method to cook chicken , because it is very rapid , and easy to overcook the chicken . Some of this , you will simply learn by experience , based on the typical size of the parts you are frying , and the type of breading you use . You will learn to recognize from the pattern of bubbles and how the breading looks when it is done . In the mean time , if you have a quality instant read thermometer , you can take a piece out and measure its temperature . White meat should be about 158 - 160 F , dark meat about 165 - 170 F ( depending on your preference ) .
According to an article about Fugu at <URL> : Some people who 've tried puffer dishes describe it as one of the most sublime flavors in the world . Others , apparently less enthusiastic , or simply more objective , describe fugu meat as a cross between crunchy and chewy , said by the Japanese to go " shiko-shiko " in one 's mouth when absolutely fresh . That 's what some consider the main attraction of the risky meal . But taste is n't everything . Many say that fugu is simply addictive ! According to <URL> : " Long answer : like rubber when raw but like silk when cooked . " At <URL> ( in an indepth article ) , Adam Platt says : Hashimoto 's fugu indeed has a certain clean sashimi quality to it , and a resilient chewiness , but otherwise it 's a letdown . It tastes flavorless and gummy , like a cross between Reichl 's fluke and day-old squid . [ ... ] And then the tingling sensation begins . It starts on my lips and seems to be quickly tracking down the back of my throat . I put down my chopsticks and shift my legs under the table . I bring the tips of my fingers to my mouth and begin touching my lips in a tender , slightly agitated way , like a d dental patient shot full of Novocain . [ ... ] our next course , which is a little helping of deep-fried fugu ribs . The bony ribs ( " These look like hamster ribs , " I tell Shinji ) are hacked in little pieces , tossed in flour , and seasoned with sea salt and a sprinkling of the dried kelp called kombu . The ribs have the nice meaty texture of monkfish , they 're perfectly fried , and they 're delicious . ( This may simply prove that anything tastes good fried , including bony , potentially fatal fish ribs . ) However , I suspect the popularity of fugu , especially in Japan is a complex amalgam of factors including : Pride in cultural heritage , since this is a uniquely Japanese practice , although it is spreading The enjoyment of the feeling of numbness that properly prepared fugu leaves in the mouth , from just the tiniest traces of the toxin Popularity of extremely expensive items , which therefore must be special The art of the presentation , which ( as the dish is very expensive ) is at its highest levels Some people are crazy :-)
While I have n't heard of it happening for the specific ingredients you list , yes , the blender can make stuff really bitter . There are two ways this can happen . First , a chemical reaction . A blender really churns the stuff through , driving lots of air bubbles into the mixture with some force . It also causes friction heat , especially professional grade blenders like vitamix . The heat , force and large reaction surface can cause the oxygen in the air to enter a reaction with the ingredients which does n't happen when using a milder method for cutting up . Olive oil is a known culprit here , it usually turns bitter when blended , but it can happen with other stuff too . Besides oxygen , a chemical reaction can also happen between two ingredients coming from two different vegetables , which would not have been mixed well enough in the knife scenario to produce noticeable amounts of reaction product . The second possibility is releasing stuff which would have stayed " packed " without the blender . A knife will only damage the plant cells at the cut surfaces , and a blunt knife , if used with a somewhat inefficient technique , might even break very ripe vegetables along the cell walls instead of cutting through the cells . If there are mini-droplets of something bitter within the plant cells , it is possible that the blender ( which really cuts cells into pieces ) released these things . On a more macro level , it is also possible that we are not talking mini-droplets , but just plant parts which did n't get cut with the knife . Stray pepper seeds come in mind : you probably did n't cut any with the knife , they tend to be pushed by a knife instead of cut when you are cutting the pepper . The blender pulverizes everything that hits the blades , including these seeds . I can not know which of these is the most probable source , or which plant contained the bitter matter exposed/created by the blender . But the different methods of mincing vegetables are not equivalent , and can have very noticeable effects on taste and texture beyond the obvious chunk size . The bitterness you encountered is only one example . In general , use the method specified in a recipe . If you are not working from a written recipe , try out a few and see which works best .
I do n't know that type of rice , but it sounds like it ran out of liquid before it was done . Some types of rice can be done in about 10m , some take over half an hour . My tricks for risotto like dishes are : wash the rice to remove loose starch taste regularly so you can intervene as needed , avoid stirring as much as you can ( you can stir a few times to avoid burning ) , fry the rice with the onions before adding water , add liquid in small batches until it 's done . Try it with a few small batches to get the hang of it . It could very well be the wrong type of rice , so you may want to try other brands .
Gerbil gave the basic reasons as to why this might be happening , but as for the ' how to recover ' ... you have a few options : Wait for it to finish separating , and take the oil off , then serve without oil . If you still want some fat for mouthfeel , after separating , you can add some butter back into the warm ( but not too hot ) sauce , and stir 'til melted and combined . If going for a more gravy-like consistency , after separating , put the oil back into the pan , make a roux and follow the <URL> , but use the juices in place of the milk . After separating , take some of the non-oil part , add an emulsifier ( eg , mustard ) , then slowly whisk back in some fat , add some of the juices , then slowly add the rest of the fat 'til it 's the consistency you want . Put it into a blender an mix ( although , open the vent hole , then put a towel over the lid , and hold it down with one hand when you turn it on ... blending hot things can be a mess ) or use a stick blender . In the future , I would separate out the juice &amp; fats before reducing . You never know quite how much fat will render out of a piece of meat , and I feel I can reduce the juices faster when there is n't fat in there , but I 've never actually timed it . Or , you can go the roux / gravy route if you 're in a hurry .
Unfortunately , cornstarch does that . It does not reheat well . Potato starch is even worse , and that 's the thickener in Knorr 's Leek Soup . If you want to reheat something thickened , your best bet is to thicken it with a roux . There are other more modern thickeners ( think molecular gastronomy ) , but I do n't know much about those .
Salt is not necessary , it 's just a flavour thing , a common personal preference I suspect you 'll get a saltier taste by putting it in the water , than putting it in the sauce for the same volume of salt Hot water is not necessary too , you can prepare dried pasta with cold water . But it does n't taste right to me , so does salt less pasta :-)
end question
start question
How do I tell the freshness of raw chicken ?
The yellow color could be just a sign of what it was fed . According to the USDA : THE COLOR OF POULTRY What is the usual color of raw poultry ? Raw poultry can vary from a bluish-white to yellow . All of these colors are normal and are a direct result of breed , exercise , age , and/or diet . Younger poultry has less fat under the skin , which can cause the bluish cast , and the yellow skin could be a result of marigolds in the feed . You could have an older chicken that had marigolds in what it was fed . On the flip side , I was always taught that if any meat smells bad , it is n't good to eat . If it was my chicken in the kitchen , I would take it back to the store or just throw it out . If you are still debating on if it is good to eat , you could always take it back to the store where you purchased it , or contact the <URL> .
Two things control the " sharpness " of onions : variety and age . While certain varieties of onions are sharper than others ( i.e. Reds , walla-walls and vidalias are sweeter ) , any onion which has been in storage too long is going to be sulphurous and sharp-tasting . Since it 's January now , that 's going to be pretty much all onions . Since onion sharpness comes from sulphur compounds ( as I understand it ) , the best way to sweeten onions is to release some of them ahead of using the onion . The best way to do that is : Slice the onion thinly , crossways ( parallel to its equator rather than pole-to-pole ) . Place the sliced onion in a wide bowl , uncovered or very loosely covered , in the fridge or other cold place for at least an hour and up to a day . Additionally , either vinegar or salt -- or both -- will help accelerate removing sharpness from onion . For example , for a New Year 's Eve appetizer this year I sliced a red onion in to rings , tossed it with 1/2 tsp salt and 2 tsp red wine vinegar , and left it in an open bowl on the 45F porch for 5 hours . The result was intensely sweet red onion which could then be used as a canape topping . If you 're in a hurry , though , the only way to make the onion less sharp is to cook it .
If it has a shiny/reflective surface and does n't melt or bloom ( much ) at room temperature or hand temperature , then it 's already tempered . Virtually every packaged chocolate is already tempered . Untempered chocolate generally needs to be refrigerated for longer-term storage , so if a package does n't specify refrigeration ( and I 've never seen one that does ) , you can assume that it is tempered .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
If it 's raw , stick with the best-before date on the label . If cooked , you have at least <URL> , regardless of whether it 's pork , veal , or regular beef .
Cranberries have a ton of pectin - which is one reason why cranberry jelly is so prevalent . Just simmer the cranberries , sugar , and orange juice together for a while and they will eventually gel . I do n't know how the liqueur will behave but if it was supposed to be served raw then you probably would want to add it after boiling so the alcohol would n't boil off . Of course - you wo n't be able to call this a " raw fruit relish " anymore - it would become a pretty standard cranberry sauce recipe . If you want to keep the berries raw then I would recommend combining the sugar and orange juice with some other thickener such as corn starch or gelatin .
So <URL> and <URL> suggest that there are 3 kinds of rinds . Summary below : Bloomy : Appears white , soft , maybe fuzzy . Can also be reddish/brownish . Comes on softer cheeses that have a more custard-like flavor . Formed by a spray of penicillium candidum before aging . Edible , but the flavor changes and may taste ammoniated over time ( consume so long as it 's palatable ) Washed : Color ranges from pinkish red to orange or brown . Caused by bathing the cheese in some kind of solution , be it a salty brine , beer , brandy , wine or some other alcohol . Contributes to the flavor in some cheeses , and tastes unpleasant in others . Natural : Formed by letting the cheese age on its own , drying out and growing whatever molds might be present in the cheese or air . Tends to have a concentrated flavor of the cheese , but may not be palatable . Examples : Stilton , Montgomery Cheddar , Parmigiano-Reggiano . Sometimes comes under a cloth cover . Should be edible , minus the cloth . Additionally , there are two other possibilities No Rind : There should be no guessing here . You 've probably had cheeses with no rind ... because they might come in a container . Ricotta , fresh mozzarella , and creme fraiche come to mind . Wax/Twig/Cloth : Inedible . Should be discarded My personal takeaway from this quick research is that I should learn to distinguish artificial covers ( cloth/wax ) from rinds . It seems like those that separate from the cheese will either be an artificial cover or an old rind , both of which are undesirable . If it 's indeed a rind , then I 'd taste it , both alone and with the cheese , to determine if it 's palatable . For Parmigiano-Reggiano specifically , I 've read that it goes well in soup . Perhaps this is because it 's unpalatable-y hard , but still contains the concentrated flavor . TLDR : look for cloth/wax . If none , is it tasty ? Does it feel good in the mouth ?
It is possible for mold to form on cashews - or any other nuts - but only if there has been moisture penetration into the container . If the moisture is at a safe ( low ) level , then mold wo n't grow . See for example , <URL> , which refers to the maximum acceptable moisture content of 5.8 % for retail storage/shipping , although if you look at their data table , it appears that you may still end up with non-trivial amounts of mold in the low 5 % range ( which is why you are supposed to store nuts sealed and in a cool , dry place ) . Honestly , cashews are hard enough such that you would almost certainly see mold on the surface if it were present in harmful quantities . Most likely what you 're smelling/tasting is simply oxidation of the fats ( the process which causes rancidity ) without actual full-blown rancidity . Mold requires moisture but all oxidation requires is light and maybe a little air exposure . If you really want to be on the safe side - e.g. if your home is particularly hot or humid - then store your nuts in the refrigerator or freezer ( sealed , to prevent contamination or off-odours ) . Although most ( all ? ) nuts are considered shelf-stable , they do keep longer in the fridge or freezer .
It 's not so much the dry ingredients as it is the cooking technique , which involves double frying the chicken . You 'll notice that the recipe you link instructs you to double fry the chicken , and so do others like this one : <URL>
I did a little bit of digging on the topic and found this TapTrip blog post : <URL> It also references a Cultura Bunka article in Spanish called <URL> To quote : During Muromachi Period ( 1336-1573 ) , japaneses [ sic ] used to transport the raw fish inside of baked rice to keep it conserved during long trips . Then , they started to eat this meal which was called sushi . [ ... ] But , making sushi was hard because took a long time and was a little expensive . Only during Edo Period ( 1603-1868 ) japaneses started to eat the raw fish freshly caught from the ocean with rice thanks to a sushiman called Hanaya Yohei . So it appears the short answer is indeed " just an accident of culture " ( or history ) so-to-speak . I will also quote from a short article <URL> * Raw fish dishses have been eaten since the Nara-era . At first , people ate raw fish pickled with vinegar as " Namasu " . Then , from the Muromachi-era , people started to eat " Sashimi " . And a bonus small bit on careful preparation of Sashimi : Sashimi is the main dish in the Japanese cuisine , and the cooks consider carefully the best way of cutting the fish , arranging the fish , shellfish and squid , give importance to the proper use of condiments , and the best combination of fish species when serving . The thickness of sashimi is determined according to the collagen ( main protein in the connective tissue ) content of the fish used . * [ Foods Food Ingredients J. Jpn. , Vol . 212 , No. 8 , 20 ] Keiko Hatae Wayo Women 's University 2-3-1 , Kohnodai , Ichikawa-shi , Chiba 272-8533 , Japan
Here are a few things to be wary of when buying peppers : Wrinkled skin -- it 's a sign that they 're drying out . It should be firm and smooth . Soft areas -- it 's a sign that it 's starting to rot in areas . It should be firm all over . Fuzz near the stem or blossom end -- you ca n't always see outward signs of the fuzzy mold , but if you do , it 'll be right around where the stem attaches , or in the crevice on the other side . Cracks -- it 's a sign that someone 's dropped it , and opens up the possibility of rotting faster Spots -- besides the soft areas , you can get small dots in an area ... it 's a sign of disease . ( I 'm not sure which ; I typically get this when growing my own , do n't see it in the store ) . Holes -- a sign that there 's an insect that 's eaten its way inside . ( again , I see this more on home grown ones ) Things that are n't always a problem : Discoloration : if it 's a green pepper , it might start turning red , yellow or orange . Red peppers might have an area that looks black or brown . So long as that area is n't soft , and the color changes look blended in ( not where it 's an obvious line between colors ) , it 's fine . Weight : you typically want heavier specimens , but some varieties are thinner skinned , and wo n't be as heavy . If you find one that seems abnormally light , compare it to similar sized ones in the display . If they 're all the same , and do n't have wrinkled skin , they 're probably okay . White lines : you typically see this more on hot peppers , but it can happen on bell peppers , too . They 'll be roughly parallel to each other , along the line from stem to blossom . It 's a sign that they got a sudden burst of water while growing , which caused the skin to crack ( but then heal ) . Folds : some varieties of peppers are more balloon-like , while others may have a few folds ; so long as it 's still smooth skin ( not wrinkled ) , relatively heavy for its size , and you do n't see fuzz in the folds , it 's not an issue .
Working in restaurants similar things to this happened a lot . Our quick fix that usually did the trick was 50/50 vinegar and water and boil it off as mentioned above . Lemon juice or even orange should work instead of vinegar for a better scent . At a guess , the more acidy fluids help break down any splatter that may have gone into the vents . Hint : this is also great to do just before cleaning the microwave , even baked on splatter comes off easily after the steam .
Moisture-release is not a result of the cooking process but of the quality of the chicken . Try the following experiment : Buy halal or kosher chicken breast Buy the cheapest chicken breast you can find . Now put two pans on the stove , and put the industrial chicken breast in the left pan and put the kosher/halal in the right . Ensure both pans have the same heat setting , the same amount of fat ( I prefer duck fat for frying chicken breast ) and watch the amount of moisture coming out of the left one and the fat actually being soaked up by the right one . So the easiest way to avoid this is to buy good quality chicken ...
Dust the fruit with a little flour before adding to the cake . It will act like a glue and prevent the fruit from sinking .
According to <URL> : Chestnut storage is not the same as most nuts . Fresh chestnuts should be stored like carrots . Chestnuts are comprised of about 40-50 % water and thus if not stored properly , they will spoil . Therefore , chestnuts should be stored with great care and attention . The ideal storage conditions for chestnuts are 33-35 degrees Fahrenheit and 85-90 % humidity . We recommend storing chestnuts in covered containers in the coldest part of the refrigerator . Stored properly in the refrigerator , chestnuts can have a shelf life of approximately 2-3 weeks . If you plan to use the chestnuts soon after receiving them , simply place them in a covered container in the coldest part of the refrigerator . The colder , the better . Otherwise , they recommend freezing them ( preferably par-cooked ) , and provide information at the link above . <URL> offers the following information about storing chestnuts , to prevent molding to which they indicate the chestnuts are susceptible due to their high water content : Do not let fresch chestnuts freeze and thaw ( except if you are freezing for a purpose ) Never store chestnuts in a sealed plastic bag ( except dried or frozen ) Keep chestnuts refrigerated unless drying or sweetening the chestnuts If black molds have entered into the chestnut kernel , do not eat the chestnut Chestnuts can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 to 3 weeks Cooked chestnuts must also be refrigerated if not consumed right away Never bathe the chestnuts in plain water - this causes mold spores to be transferred to all the chestnuts passing though the bath water - instead , wash in clean running tap water Try to purchase fresh chestnuts close to the time you want to eat them
The reasons people still roast whole birds are : Roasting a whole chicken is easier than butterflying it . While it 's not tough to butterfly a chicken many people do n't know how , or do n't want the cleanup It 's less prep time to roast a whole chicken . If you are busy you can have it from the fridge to the oven in less than a minute , while butterflying or jointing it is n't super-quick Aesthetics : some people like the look of a whole chicken on the table
The strongest smells in mayonnaise should be vinegar and egg . There should n't be any yeast , and therefore any yeast smell , so that is a bit concerning . I am not sure what might imitate a yeast smell . I do n't know how to counter the smell since I am not sure what the origination of the smell is . Does it taste okay ? Is the texture okay ? I do find that homemade and store brand mayonnaises have pretty different smells in general .
It Depends . First off , by ' goes bad ' I 'm assuming you mean both ' stale and unpalatable ' and ' moldy and not food-safe ' . And for both of those , it 's going to greatly depend on what ingredient , what you 're making , and how you 're making it . In the case of tomatoes , if you take your batch of ' last-legs ' tomatoes ( and I 'm assuming you mean there 's almost an unsafe level of bacterial/mold growth on them ) , and thoroughly cook them into a sauce , i.e. bring to a boil for an extended amount of time , you 'll ( hopefully ) kill of the microbes , and inactivate the toxins created by those bacteria , you will have a generally safe-to-eat sauce . Compared with a similarly cooked sauce from fresher tomatoes , it will probably get moldy at roughly the same average rate . However , it will probably taste worse . The ' last-legs ' sauce will get to unpalatable faster than the fresh one . Generally , if you 're able to cook something thoroughly , you 'll generally ' reset ' the microbe growth timeline back to the starting-point . With meat , however , you usually do n't want to cook it to the point of sterility . ( If you do n't believe me , boil a steak for an hour . Then try to eat it . ) So if you have a last-legs steak , I would n't cook it , then store it for a week in the fridge . Making a stew might be a good move , however .
The theory is that washing the chicken ( or any fowl ) removes all of the contaminates from the surface and cavity of the bird ( ie salmonella , etc. ) . People will be in one of two camps - 1 . those that have been told to do all of their lives , so they do it , and 2 . those who do n't because it is really not necessary . You cook your birds to a certain temperature internally for a reason , that is to kill all of that stuff . Really , the truth of the matter is that there are far higher risks in washing the bird and spreading all of those juices all over your sink ( thus contaminating the sink and possibly some work surfaces ) . There is no increase in flavour , there is no practical reason to bother . Professionally , it is not done . However , having said that , the one time I do rinse and pat dry is when I am applying a rub . It ensures that the chicken is dry and I can effectively rub , instead of the rub turning to a paste .
Commercial kitchens use a few methods that are hidden from the camera during kitchen shows . First , there are cutting boards for meats , and separate cutting boards for vegetables . These are often color coded so they are n't mixed up . If there is room , raw meats use an entirely different table . Any possibly contaminated board is sanitized before reuse . Second , the cloths you see are stored in a bucket of sanitizing fluid which kills microbes on contact . When a surface is wiped down , or hands are cleaned , they are being sanitized by the liquid on the cloth . Finally , there is usually more than one person working behind the scenes and labor is divided so the raw meat people are not the same as the green salad people . At home , planning is the key . Try to do all of your non-meat prep first . Then you can contaminate your cutting board without having to wash it again . Then try to take care of all of your meat prep , so you only have to wash your hands once . And remember that if you drop a vegetable on your raw chicken , it 's not a big deal if it 's all going to be cooked .
end question
start question
Milk instead of water for sourdough ?
Adding milk works because <URL> . It might even work better , as it also contains sugar ( lactose ) which will be eaten by your starter 's yeasts and bacteria . But it also contains other stuff , such as fats . And fats , after some time , get rancid . You probably wo n't want that taste in bread or pancakes . I would stick to water ( which quite probably you 'll find cheaper than milk ) . Do n't worry about rotten milk : your starter is already rotten . And it 's a hostile environment for most microbes . It 's very very improbable new microbes would survive there . But if they do , they 'll be quite similar to the already existing ones .
Baking powder , especially if too great a quantity is used , adds an unpleasant flavor to a baked good . Even in an appropriate quantity it can be noticeable and it certainly does n't do anything to enhance the flavor . Many baked goods traditionally do n't use a chemical leavener at all , but instead rely on technique . Creaming butter and sugar together or whipping egg whites was historically used to make cakes which rose solely based on the bubble network that was created . Yeast , on the other hand , creates a delightful flavor that you associate with your favorite crusty loaf of bread . Yeast can be used not only in making bread but also in some excellent cakes ( <URL> , for example , although many " knock off " recipes cheat here and miss out on the true goodness ) . Yeast also provides a significantly different texture during the rising due to the intentional creation of a gluten network ( usually something you absolutely do n't want in a quick bread or quick cake ) -- you do n't get a crumb with big , airy holes from baking powder or baking soda with an acid . Also , in my experience baking powder lasts six months in the pantry and yeast lasts at least six months in the fridge . The shelf life is not so different . If yeast scares you , you may want to check out some of the proponents of the <URL> technique . For a lot more information on this subject , there is a recent publication that covers all sorts of <URL> .
Unless your hot water tank is very close to your hot water tap , this is a very energy inefficient . As Jefromi notes it would be faster to boil water in a electric kettle first , and then pour it into the pan . Put the pan on the heat at the same time if you are really in a hurry Hot water systems are normally hot enough ( above 55 ° C , 130 ° F ) to keep water borne nasties at bay , plus if you are on town supply water it will be chlorinated etc Normally on the first few meters of hot water pipe are copper , then it switched to normal crimped plastic plumbing . This will vary depending on your local building codes The rate at which pipes lose their heat would ensure it never sits in the danger area for long , not that I think this is a big issue for clean plain water In general , modern copper pipes are not soldered , they are crimped using special hand tools Old or non-renovated houses may still be 100 % copper pipes that have been soldered . This poses no extra safety risks with just clean water in the pipes
Liquid naturally comes out of all meats as they cook . If you 're using high heat and a frying pan , you do n't really notice it because it evaporates quickly . That brown stuff you see in a frying pan after cooking meat on high heat are the evaporated juices . If you 're baking them at around 350 F , you 'll also notice water being released . This is amplified if you overcrowd the cooking vessel . You do n't see it in a whole roasted chicken or roast beef for example because the liquid coming out caramelizes and creates those lovely browned bits to make a sauce or gravy . I doubt that WF is selling water and phosphate tumbled chicken breasts .
I disagree with Neil 's answer here . All the three terms of " poaching " , " boiling " or " simmering " require that your food is fully submerged , especially for poaching it has to be free-floating in a large amount of water . I doubt that you are submerging anything in 4 mm , and this little amount of water would boil off quickly if you had so little food that it is submerged . Depending on the exact circumstances and the type of food ( veggies vs grains vs meat ) , but also on the size of the food chunks , what you are doing is either sweating , steaming or braising , but in a very inefficient form . Sweating would be part of the initial browning of vegetables before further use in a soup or similar , until they are softer . It usually involves some browning , but this wo n't happen when you are using water . In fact , you 're better off leaving the water out altogether in this case and use either fat or nothing . Steaming can be done with vegetables or grains . It is better done with somewhat more water than you describe , but still much less than needed for boiling them . The " mix food and water in the pan/pot " technique is better suited for grains , vegetables do better in a steamer suspended over a large amount of boiling water , without touching the water . Braising is normally used for meat , but can also be done with other food which can be cut up in largish chunks ( aubergines would do , but not peas , for example ) . It is tastier when done in a sauce than in water . Unlike shallow frying , which is done with oil , what you are doing does not have a name of its own , because it is not something usually done when cooking . Depending on what you are trying to do , there are better ways to go about it .
Fish sauce ! I think the clam juice is probably already a substitute for fish sauce anyway , so it should make a very good substitute . ( If you look up recipes for Thai beef salad you 'll find tons of things with fish sauce , and probably not much with clam juice . ) You probably want to use less , though , maybe starting with 2-4 tablespoons , though I 've seen recipes using more . It should be fine for the dietary restriction too ; it 's just made with anchovies , not an unknown blend of seafood , but of course check the label just in case .
You are n't going to be able to get a sourdough starter from flour to ready-to-bake in 24 hours . You could easily make a poolish or pâte fermentée in that time , and get some of the flavor . You might also be able to use some yogurt whey or another source of lactic acid to get some of the sour flavor . Unfortunately , a sour starter is something that you kind of need to keep going and have on hand .
Yes , you do n't have the edge of a pan in the way when going to flip things , but it also means that you do n't have a mass of metal there to add as a heat sink , which can help dramatically when pre-heating your pans , as they 'll be evenly heated across their bottom more quickly ( at least , compared to something of the same material , such as a cast iron skillet ) More importantly , in my opinion , is that without the sides , you do n't hold in moist air , so when cooking things like hash browns , you can get a better crust on 'em without steaming them .
Worked fine for us ; we used to cottage with people who did n't want to shop very often , had lots of kids and a big freezer out back . We would buy lots of milk and freeze it just fine . Do let it defrost completely before trying to use it . We never noticed any separation , nor problems with expansion - do be aware of the container the milk is actually in , and if there is room in there for freezing to occur . FYI - this specific experience was in Canada , and milk up here comes in bags that we then place into a pitcher-like contraption to use . Your specific container may or may not have enough space .
Most of the kefir recipes I saw online use whole milk , not low-fat milk as a starter . One source mentioned that commercial low-fat kefir recipes use large amounts of <URL> to make them thick . This might be related to your homemade kefir tasting watery , or being grainy , I do n't know - but at least if you try and it does n't solve the problem , you 've eliminated one possible variable . Another possibility is if your kefir is left too long , it will finish fermenting and start to separate . This stage , of beginning to separate into <URL> , might match your description of grains and clear liquid at the bottom of your container , though it perhaps has n't curdled entirely yet . It may also explain the sharper taste , if the kefir has had enough time to ferment all the way through your milk . If your kefir was over-fermenting for whatever reason - perhaps it is sitting a little longer than it needs to , or if it 's a little warmer then it might ferment faster , or something about <URL> - then stopping the ferment a little early ( couple hours at a time ? ) , straining out the grains and putting the kefir in the fridge , might get you the results you want .
Yes , you could certainly reconstitute evaporated milk by adding water . The outcome would give you similar but not identical results as fresh milk , due to the change in flavor the milk underwent while being cooked down to the evaporated state : it will retain the slightly cooked , caramelized flavor . This may or many not have a significant effect on a given recipe . Milk also freezes , and still is suitable for most cooking purposes , should you choose to do so . Finally , if you use milk very rarely , unless you are making a dairy dominated recipe like custard or cream soup , you may not have to use milk at all . Water or another liquid might perform similarly or well enough -- it depends on the specific application .
Most bakers refer to this as a starter and it is extremely easy to keep up . You will need a plastic bag or a jar to keep it in , a cup of warm water , and some flour . You can either grow some wild yeast or add a particular strain to the growth solution depending what you are trying to do with the yeast . Once you do that , just leave it someplace warm but not over 100 degree F . Then once a day , you feed the yeast by removing half and adding back a half cup of flour and a half cup of water . Once it starts foaming remove to the fridge and remember to feed once a week . It will be with you for the rest of the your time on earth . Also , that half you take out when you feed it ? Makes a great gift to other baking or cooking friends . Also , if you devolop a dark smelly liquid , just stir it back in , it is normal and nothing to worry about .
They are technically two different pastries . Shortcrust pastry made with water is called pâte a foncer , ' lining pastry ' . Shortcrust pastry made with milk is called pâte brisée . Pâte brisée typically contains a bit more butter , and is generally lighter and flakier than pâte a foncer , which is conversely crisper and firmer . So it 's up to you really ; both are very similar . The pâte brisée is more delicate , so if you have a ' heavy ' filling , say , lots of fruits , it might be better to go with the foncer .
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
Refrigerated coconut-based milk substitutes like Silk Pure Coconut or So Delicious Coconut Milk have a stated lifespan of 7-10 days after opening . I 've had cartons last longer than that without any change in taste or smell , but if it started tasting bad or smelling funky I would toss it . Unfortunately , this type of coconut milk product does not reconstitute well after freezing .
You can use definitely use polenta/cornmeal for breading , but it 'll tend to be noticeably more crunchy than breadcrumbs are . An obvious comparison is cornmeal fried fish . People make it multiple ways : <URL> so it 'll add a definite crunch , while <URL> which will soften it up . The moisture from whatever you 've coated matters too . I 'm guessing pork loin is n't going to release a whole lot of water , but if you 're marinating it perhaps you 'd get some from there . Since polenta is coarser , I 'm guessing you might want to err on the side of caution , to avoid crunchy turning into gritty .
Adding milk works because <URL> . It might even work better , as it also contains sugar ( lactose ) which will be eaten by your starter 's yeasts and bacteria . But it also contains other stuff , such as fats . And fats , after some time , get rancid . You probably wo n't want that taste in bread or pancakes . I would stick to water ( which quite probably you 'll find cheaper than milk ) . Do n't worry about rotten milk : your starter is already rotten . And it 's a hostile environment for most microbes . It 's very very improbable new microbes would survive there . But if they do , they 'll be quite similar to the already existing ones .
Same reason that recipes call for cocoa powder and not a cup of hot chocolate - it does n't contain any water , and it 's easy to control quantities . If you used brewed coffee then the recipe would have to be adjusted for water content - assuming that 's even possible and you 're not adding the instant coffee to other dry ingredients . There may not even be enough water in the recipe to make the adjustment , and if there is , variations on coffee beans/grounds , brewing methods , etc. would make it impractical to estimate the quantity needed . That 's not to say you ca n't use brewed coffee if you want to , but as a recipe writer it 's far simpler to work with fixed/standardized quantities , and brewed coffee is about as far from that as you can possibly get .
From a purist perspective , cabbage is fairly important to the recognizability of the dish by that name ( as well as the pickled matchstick-cut ginger ) . Additional ingredients beyond those two are far more substitutable ( at least from common Japanese perspective ) ; the cabbage actually contributes a fair amount of flavor to an otherwise unremarkable dish . In fact , the presence of a mere two leaves suggests to me this is a pretty small portion . So here 's a " how to avoid substituting " answer , followed by a how to substitute answer . Cabbage tends to survive a good 2 weeks in the refrigerator , so I would n't fret about it too much . It also makes a good garnish , shredded ; additionally , it was super trendy for a few years for izakaya in Japan to serve raw cabbage with miso paste ( sometimes sweetened ) . I know many shops that will even sell a half a head ( in Japan it 's easy to buy even a quarter head of cabbage ) , or you may find a small package of pre-chopped , unseasoned coleslaw mix , which typically contains cabbage and carrots . Finally , cabbage makes an excellent foundation for a vegetarian soup stock , so it 's great way of making sure any surplus does n't go to waste . The only substitutes somewhat consistent with the style of the dish are other variations of cabbage ( bok choy , napa cabbage , possibly kimchi ) or certain crispy roots like kohlrabi . But frankly , those steer the dish into a non-Japanese style of pan-fried noodles . Not that there 's anything wrong with that , but the texture and flavor differences are fairly pronounced . In a pinch , we 've made these substitutions in my home , but in that case it was more about using up available ingredients , rather than trying to find an alternative .
No . Sourdough culture is not a mold . Even when the surface of your sourdough gets moldy ( per Adam , above ) to get moldy , it 's not the kind of mold which releases spores into the air . I speak as a severe allergy sufferer .
end question
start question
Can I substitute whole anchovies for anchovy paste ?
You can easily make your own anchovy paste from canned anchovies . This <URL> shows how : Chop the anchovies fairly finely Mash with a fork until smooth Some sites recommend adding a little oil for a smoother texture . I have never tried it , but I do n't see any reason this would not freeze exceptionally well , as neither whole anchovies nor the paste are used for their texture .
What are the best substitutes for arborio risotto rice ? Your best replacement would be another short grain , or in a pinch , medium grain rice . ( if it 's a variety that does n't cook up creamy enough for your liking ... you can cheat and after you remove it from the heat , quickly stir in a beaten egg ) And how about when your only choices are all the local shops have : pearl barley , or ' brown rice with barley and spelt blend ' ? I 'd probably go with the pearl barley , just because it 'll have a more consistent cooking time than a blend . ( so you do n't end up w / little uncooked nuggets in a puddle of overcooked mush . This makes me think pearl barley is the best option . It take a lot more boiling than normal rice ( 40 minutes ) , so I 'll have to half-cook it by boiling before adding it to my pan with stock as my risotto recipe calls for . Do n't pre-cook it . You want to toast your uncooked grains in the oil , just as you would with a rice-based risotto before you add any liquid . If you do n't do this step , <URL> ( I ca n't comment on the texture , as I 've never tried cooking pearl barley this way ) . If you 're reluctant to spend almost an hour in front of the stove , the period to cheat is in the middle ; toast it , do a couple of stock additions w / lots of stirring , then add lots of stock &amp; let it cook , then once it 's nearly dry go back to stirring &amp; slowly adding liquid 'til it 's done ... or <URL>
Decent port is not necessarily expensive ; you may find yourself spending more on the meat . For example , Sandeman 's Founders Reserve 750 ml runs about US$ 15 before taxes , Dow 's Fine Tawny 750 ml is about US$ 13 , and Graham 's Six Grapes Ruby 750 ml is about US$ 8 ( and this is just the start of the list ) . These are , perhaps , not the connoisseur 's choices , but they are hardly undrinkable . Depending on the laws where you live , you ( or your favorite wine shop ) can order any of these online from a variety of sources . Port has a unique character that is not easy to replicate with any other wine or fortified wine . If you are trying to replicate a result , do not substitute . If you really want something else that will serve the same role even if it will taste different , I would look to a Madeira , a cream sherry , or sweet Marsala ( depending on your tastes ) .
Based on their ingredients they should be pretty similar ( Orgran : Potato starch , Tapioca flour , Calcium carbonate , Citric acid , vegetable gum ( stabiliser ) : Methylcellulose vs. Ener-G : Potato Starch , tapioca starch flour , leavening ( calcium lactate , calcium carbonate , citric acid ) , sodium carboxymethylcellulose , methylcellulose ) . Do you have any bulk food co-ops / health stores in your area ? Sometimes they sell Ener-G or similar products in bulk , that way you can just buy the few tablespoons that you need and try it out before investing in the whole box .
They just use it for the lecithine . You can buy straight lecithine ( they normally sell soy-based lecithine , but maybe you should check with the producer to make sure it is vegetarian ) and dissolve some in the cream . Do n't bother replacing the fat , truffels have enough from other sources .
First off , the blender should not be damaged by the shells ; if it is , it should have been replaced anyway . The mass of the shells is simply not enough to damage the blender in any significant way . I would not , however , recommend eating the product , for a few reasons : You can not be confident that the egg shell has been completely pulverised . At some point , the blades stop chopping the shell , and simply spins it around Whenever using egg shells for presentation , they should be thoroughly cleaned and sterilized , because you do n't know what is coating it . You may very conceivably contract diseases from bacteria on the shell .
My wife loves it toasted . Toast shredded coconut in a dry pan or oven and put on ice cream and other deserts . It 's really tasty . Like toasting other nuts be careful as if you blink it may burn .
It should be OK , especially if you are purchasing already homogenized almond milk . If you are using homemade almond milk , your glaze wo n't be perfectly smooth , which may or may not bother you . Your " glaze " is a standard ganache , and it can be , in principle , made with water or any real dairy . The only purpose of the liquid is to change the consistency of the chocolate to something thinner and softer than a chocolate bar . Cream is the standard choice because it imparts a luscioius creaminess . But you can use lower fat dairy , or cultured dairy products , or even water , if you want a slightly different taste . A nut milk is simply finely ground nuts mixed with water , frequently also sweetened . It has its own taste , but nuts and chocolate are a classic combination , and even if people notice the faint taste , they are n't likely to complain . Texturewise , there will be no problem from adding it to the chocolate .
In general you need to consider the purpose of the ingredient , and what would happen to it during the cooking that it 's missed . For example , there 's no point stirring a spoonful of flour into a sauce after cooking , since the flour needs heat in order to thicken the sauce . In the case of the tomato paste , not much will happen to that particular ingredient during cooking . It may have caramelised a little , depending on the cooking method . It would have infused more deeply into some of the other ingredients . But these are subtle things . Taste your finished product . If you feel it would benefit from an extra boost of tomato flavour , by all means stir in some tomato paste .
No , you can never restore a fruit or vegetable to its original texture after thawing . Physically , this is caused by the water in its cells expanding and bursting the cell walls . When it thaws , the water flows out of the damaged cell walls . It is not actually pure water , but cytoplasm , so it can feel differently from plant to plant , in this case slimy . It is not always slimy , but any thawed plant becomes soft and mushy , and there is no way around it . While it may superficially look like rotten , there is no safety problem with it . You can use and eat it without any problems . The advice you found for using frozen ginger shows that , at least for the recipes it is intended to , the change in texture does n't matter . If it matters for your recipe , then no , you can not preserve it by freezing , because there is no way to restore it to its fresh state .
Any of those will work , but you want a rim to prevent any drippings from making a mess in your oven . In general , the lower the sides , the better for overall air circulation around the roast , but it is not essential . If you want to be able to deglaze the pan , avoid the ceramic or glass pan , as they can not be used stove-top . Using celery ( and carrots ) as a make shift roasting stand is very effective . They will add their aroma to the pan juices , which is often a good thing . ( Note that by the time the roast is done , they are usually spent and not worth eating . ) IF you do n't want the flavor from vegetables , any small rack which will fit will work . If you do n't have one , you can improvize one by crumpling up aluminum foil into a long snake shape , and coiling or zig-zagging it on the pan just large enough to fit the roast . For a slow roasted pork shoulder , you could also go without any rack or elevation , at the cost to some small amount of crust development on the bottom . Depending on your desires , this may or may not matter -- when I do an indoor pork shoulder for pulling , I do n't bother with a rack .
The problem with using the non-ground pearls is that they do n't always fully dissolve . <URL> they can be pulverized or ground in a grinder or by mortar and pestle and used similarly to the starch . However , there are pearls which are instant and those that are not . With instant tapioca you can substitute 1:1 , with regular tapioca pearls , pulverized , it would be 2:1 . As for , they are good as a thickening agent assuming that you are okay with little gelatinous balls in whatever you are making . Rice and tapioca puddings spring to mind ; there are uses of it in curries and stews for its thickening prowess ; also it can be used as a gluten free thickening agent in place of flour . If you run out of corn starch or arrow root you can also turn to the pulverized stuff . Same rules apply ; <URL> . However , do not bring to a boil or you will end up over-cooking the starch .
Cocoa powder is made by baking the cocoa beans and then removing all the fat from them , then milling the rest to a powder . In fact , semisweet chocolate is a solid sol ( a colloid formed from homogenically dispersing solid particles ( cocoa dry matter ) in a solid ( cocoa fat ) ) . What you should add is not water , but fat . Before you start , you must be aware that cocoa fat has some very special properties . It melts at a very convenient temperature , so it is solid in the air and melts in the mouth . Plus , it has a very special form of crystalline structure , which allows [ tempering ] . <URL> This means that the substitution wo n't work for some very specific uses like making Belgian chocolates . For chocolate cake or brownies , the texture will be somewhat off , but not too much , so it should deliver acceptable results for the home cook . The taste will also be different ( there is a reason why pure chocolate is so expensive , it only uses real cocoa fat , bars with other fat types like Milka ca n't compare with the original ) . There is also the question of choosing the fat . It should be solid by room temperature . Butter is often used in desserts and has a really good taste , but it does n't mimic cocoa fat that well , because it is n't a pure fat , it is an emulsion of ~ 17 % water in milkfat . So texturewise , shortening is probably a better choice . You can use either , based on whether texture or aroma is more important for you , plus your camp in the this-type-of-fat-is-bad-for-you debate . " Semisweet chocolate " is a loose category . I usually count anything with 40 % to 60 % cocoa mass as " semisweet " . So on average , your mixture should contain 50 % sugar . The ratio of cocoa powder to fat is trickier . Luckily , I have a 90 % chocolate bar here and can tell you that it contains 55 grams of fat ( as given on the package ) . This means that pure chocolate mass has 60.5 % fat . Assuming that your cocoa powder has 15 % fat ( " weakly de-fatted powder " is my best attempt at literal translation ) and that you are using shortening ( 100 % fat ) , we arrive at a ratio of 54 % fat to 46 % cocoa powder . You probably do n't have to be that exact , especially considering the fact that the fat content of cocoa powder is n't exactly 15 % . I 'd just go with a 1:1 ratio - easy to measure , and it gives you a bit more cocoa taste . So the final proportions should be 1 part cocoa powder , 1 part vegetable shortening , and 2 parts sugar . If you feel very mathematically inclined , you can calculate it more exactly for butter and a specific cocoa powder fat content . It is also important to note that in baking , you ca n't just throw everything in and mix . Different mixing sequences result in a different air distribution in the batter , which has very important results on the final texture . So do n't try to imitate chocolate by mixing above ingredients somehow and then dumping them into the bowl . Your recipe already has a correct technique for combining the ingredients , e. g. by creaming the butter with sugar and then slowly adding the flour . It also describes a technique for adding tempered chocolate to the batter , and this one wo n't work for a homemade mixture of sugar , cocoa powder and shortening . To achieve best texture , stick to the recipe 's technique for the components . Whatever they say to do with the original butter in the recipe , do it with a mixture of the butter and the chocolate-substituting fat . Use the original sugar amount together with the chocolate . Treat cocoa powder like flour , best mix them in a separate bowl before adding to the rest . Your result wo n't be exactly like a recipe created with real semisweet chocolate , but only the most discerning eaters will notice it , and most cake eaters are not that discerning . A last word of caution : throughout the answer , I assume that you have actual cocoa powder ( I 'd use non-dutched for a stronger choco taste , but this is a matter of personal preference ) . Instant drink powder like Nesquick does n't contain much real cocoa and is unsuitable for this kind of substitution ( or for any baking purposes ) .
I would try Lime Basil or a mixture of 1/2 vinegar , and 1/2 bottled lime juice ( small portion ) .
There are two main types of provolone : piccante ( sharp ) and dolce ( sweet ) . Most braciola recipes I 've seen call for the sharp version . Sharp provolone tastes very similar to cheddar , which I assume is abundant in the UK . The issue is that " real " cheddar is a hard cheese and provolone is only semi-hard . Here in the US , we have a softer version of sharp cheddar-style cheese that is made in Wisconsin . If a similar semi-hard sharp cheddar variant is available in the UK , I would recommend that . It should also be noted that the term " braciola " ( or sometimes " braciole " ) means a lot of different things to different people . <URL> , likely including the author of your book , it takes on the Sicilian meaning of an involtino . Sometimes the meat will be filled with a soft cheese mixture like mozzarella mixed with grated pecorino romano . However , if the recipe calls for a harder cheese like provolone , it is likely referring to a variant that is very popular in the US in which the provolone is cut into thin slices ( usually using a deli slicer ) and layered on the meat before the meat is rolled . Therefore , any substitute for the provolone should ideally be thinly sliced .
Using refrigerated biscuits for <URL> is actually just a convenient shortcut - if you do n't have pre-prepared biscuit dough at hand , you can simply make your own sweet yeast dough from scratch , that 's the classic ( pre-Pillsbury-can ) recipe . Either find a recipe that uses sweet yeast dough from scratch or substitute your favourite sweet yeast dough . ( The Wikipedia page linked above has a link to a recipe , for example . )
You can stuff any pepper which is large enough . Poblano are moderately spicy . You can use bell peppers , but they will not be spicy . You might want to make up for that by including some spicier small peppers in your stuffing , perhaps a serrano or a jalapeno or seventeen , depending on your personal taste .
Asian shrimp paste is fermented and very strong and salty -- I do n't think it 's going to give you the same kind of flavor as dried shrimp at all .
Fenugreek seeds are intensely aromatic and go quite nicely in curries , and any dish where such a flavour is required . In the middle-east they use it quite a lot , often as a condiment . Highly used in spice rubs , pickles , marinades , anything where a strong spice flavour is required and often in puddings as an aromatic like nutmeg is used in English cooking . The leaves have a similar flavour , but not quite the same , you could use the seeds in their place adding them in to the spice mix if there is one , but the leaves I prefer personally . The flavour of methi leaves in thepla or in curry is wonderful in my opinion .
You could whip your own cream . Use 1/3 of the amount of heavy cream as cool whip , and whip with a splash of vanilla extract and a pinch of sugar to taste , either by hand or with a mixer . If a recipe calls for 1 cup of " whipped topping " , you would start with 1/3 cup of heavy cream which whips up to 1 cup .
end question
start question
Will potatoes discolor if I pre-make scalloped potatoes ?
They should be fine . We sometimes do it in the morning for dinner and it gives no problem . Just make sure all the potatoes are covered with liquid , or those pieces would discolour .
I believe ( although I am not sure ) that the majority of the stringiness of mashed sweet potatoes comes from the fibrous parts of the potato that are near the skin . If when you remove the skin , you remove a bit of the flesh as well , it should solve your problem .
In my experiment , blue potatoes were substitutable for Yukon Golds . However : Blue potatoes are smaller than Yukon Golds . Therefore , cooking time should be lessened by a between half to a third , particularly when parboiling . Rather than having the subtle creamy flavor of Yukons , Blue potatoes have a distinctly nutty flavor . This flavor may drown out more subtle flavors that are common to recipes calling for Yukon Golds .
One thing we have found that helps in adding flavor during the steaming process is to slice garlic thinly , and line the bottom of the steamer basket with the garlic . Then afterwards , toss the garlic in with the potatoes and add salt/pepper/etc . ( I 'd probably add paprika , onion powder , and a pinch of cayenne . ) I would imagine orange or lemon peel might work the same as garlic when steamed , although you might get better results tossing the steamed veggies with some zest . You can also toss the steamed potatoes with vinegar or lemon juice ( whether or not it 's combined with oil is up to you ) along with the spices . Another option would be to bake your potatoes rather than steam them . Just wash , poke , and bake at 350F for 1 hour . There 's no more fat , but the flavor and texture are VERY different . Just make sure not to wrap them in foil , since you wo n't get the same results . ( Wrapping potatoes in foil is essentially steaming them , and the crust wo n't get crisp . )
MSG has a flavor itself ; it tastes of " umami " , the savory , meaty flavor . This is because it 's made of <URL> ( or glutamate ) , with a little sodium ( less than salt ) . Glutamates are the compounds responsible for the basic umami taste , and they are found in high concentrations in kelp , cheeses , soy sauce , and oyster sauce . To the best of my knowledge , it 's not like salt , which is said to enhance existing flavors ; this would be more like cooking broccoli in bacon grease to impart a bacony flavor to the broccoli . Therefore , it depends heavily on the existing flavor profile of the food in question and the taste preferences of the person involved . If the person likes broccoli dunked in soy sauce , it might be worth a try .
This is perfectly normal for waxy potatoes ; their skins are soft and easily scraped off , especially if freshly harvested and handled roughly . I saw it just the other day with a batch of new potatoes fresh from the CSA . The potatoes were just fine . If you see this with thick-skinned , starchy potatoes it may be a sign of fungus , especially if accompanied by dried out or roughened patches . Green colors in the peel are also a problem , because they indicate exposure to light and an elevated level of the toxin solanine . Solanine can cause upset digestion and headaches if consumed in quantity . Do n't eat potatoes that are very green .
When I make quiche ( and for a while at an old restaurant I was baking them almost daily ) to which I am going to be adding anything other than the actual custard and flavouring , I look for three things : will these other ingredients release a lot of water when cooked ? Will these other ingredients release a lot of fat when cooked ? Will the other ingredients be fully cooked ( if desired ) in the final product ? In the first instance , most vegetables will release a significant amount of water when cooking . This has two unpleasant side effects : first , it creates steam pockets around the vegetable , preventing the custard from adhering and leaving empty spaces . Second , the steam itself can mix into and loosen the custard , preventing it from setting properly . Neither of these , as Brown would say , are good eats . Of course some vegetables let off more water , e.g. tomatoes , than others . Second , dealing with fats , we generally have meats . Many meats will release fats while cooking , a process known as rendering . Bacon is of course the fattiest of meats you are likely to use ; sausage would be similar . The release of fats into the custard will have many of the same effects as the release of water . In addition , quiche is often served cold , and excess animal fats feel unpleasantly greasy in the mouth when cold ; unpleasantly oily and greasy when hot . Cheeses are not , for reasons I do not fully understand , generally a problem when the release their fats into a quiche . That being said , I have never tried baking a quiche with very fatty liquid cheeses such as brie or camembert ; cream cheese and the similarly textured soft goat cheeses present no problem at all . Finally , we must consider whether the ingredient ( s ) will end up cooked in the final product . Custards set at quite low temperatures , so this is an important safety consideration when dealing with meats . It is less important for safety with vegetables , and becomes an issue mainly of texture ; do you want your vegetables to be crisp and crunchy or soft and limpid ? For all of these reasons , I always cook meat before including it in a quiche , unless it is charcuterie which is relatively low in fats and is safe to eat without further preparation , such as prosciutto ( but not , I 'd point out , jamon Iberico , if cut traditionally by hand , as it so often includes so much glorious fat that just melts lusciously ... I digress ) . And I almost always cook vegetables ; tomatoes , spinach ( and other leafy greens ) are always fully cooked to remove as much water as possible . Other vegetables depend on what I feel like . I generally will only blanch broccoli long enough to set a vivid green colour , as I like the contrast of soft custard with the crunchy broccoli . Your tastes may vary , of course . Short version : Meat : always cook ! render out excess fat ! Vegetables : always blanch at least ! cook out excess water !
I think you 've answered your own question . It adds an elusive flavor that most people feel enhances the creamy flavors .
Yes . What you can do is throw the potatoes in with the meat - anything above 85C will eventually cook the potatoes through . Then when you pull the meat out to rest , raise the oven temperature to say 190 - 200 C and possibly add a little fat . They wo n't take long to finish roasting to a nice golden brown .
In my 900W microwave it takes 1/2 inch water 1 minute to boil and around 30 seconds to become hand-hot , ( I know it may take a bit longer when heating a lemon with the skin acting like an insulator although this effect will be lessened due to the high oil content of the zest ) . You probably wo n't ' boil ' the lemon however if you did it would produce by far the most juice as the water in the cells would turn into steam and burst creating a semi-juiced lemon before you 've even cut it in half . A cell membrane is made up of many intricate structures , one of which is fatty acid tails . When these melt the cell becomes more ' fluid ' and becomes more permeable . This fatty acid melts at around 65 degrees . This would create a lemon that is a lot more flexible and juicy . Cell membrane diagram . Based on this evidence , I personally would say that microwaving a lemon actually could help with juicing , the effect will be most noticeable when you 're juicing a lot of lemons without a juicer .
So risotto is pretty much a blank canvas , much like say rice or pasta . So your first concern is simply to pick ingredients that go with each other . For example : tomato &amp; corn risotto , good . Tomato and chocolate risotto : bad . Second , you may want to choose a broth , cheese , and optional wine that goes well with your choice of main ingredients . Third , because risotto is Italian in origin , the most certain combinations will be those classic Mediterranean flavors . You are n't going to go wrong with say asparagus and olives , or artichokes , peas and lemon . When you start making Thai risottos , you are farther out on a limb . Finally , much of the pleasure of a risotto is in the rice itself , when properly prepared . That pleasure is fairly delicate in nature , so for maximum enjoyment you should choose reasonably delicate ingredients and/or use them in relatively small quantities .
It takes more heat/time to safely cook sausage than it does to fully cook eggs . This would be especially true for omelettes , where the egg is in contact with the hot pan , and the filling only warms indirectly . Add your expectation to start with cold sausage , and cooking the sausage and egg at the same time seems like a really bad idea . ( Yes , you could just cook the whole assembly longer , but you 'd end up with seriously vulcanized eggs . ) Be safe : cook the sausage , and then add the eggs .
The wine will bring several things to the breadmaking party : Acidity Alcohol Water Flavoring Color ( especially if it is red wine ) The biggest of these is the alcohol which is a yeast byproduct -- they do n't like it in their environment , and it inhibits their growth . The acidity can do the same . Proofing will be retarded , and you may need a larger starting quantity of yeast than for a wineless loaf . You would also have to adjust the amount of liquid in the formula to account for that from the wine . Your bread would probably take on a strange mauve color , after being baked , and may have some hint of winey flavor . I think the lack of well known wine-loaves in the world 's baking traditions indicates this does not generally work out very well , although there are some recipes for yeast raise breads containing wine such as <URL> from The Fresh Loaf .
Converting whole spices to ground spices is not as simple as matching up the weights . Ground spices have a distinctly different flavour from the whole . The freshness of the grind will also affect the taste quite considerably as well as how carefully they have been stored . When the spice is freshly ground it will have a very strong intense flavour , so you would reduce the amount you use slightly . However , ground spices rapidly loose parts of their flavour . The taste changes and you may find you will end up using more than the recipe states in order to get a similar taste . However , you 'll never get exactly the same taste , grinding changes the spice . The best solution is to try to get an supply of the whole spice from an online store . You can then use them whole or grind them yourself , fresh , as the need arises .
This just means the potato has been exposed to light and has produced chlorophyll ( the green color ) . It is most likely safe to eat , minus the green areas . Producing the chlorophyll also produces solanine , which is toxic in large quantities . Remove the green parts and do n't eat more than 4lbs . For detailed information , see this link . <URL>
Full-size octopus are tough and rubbery when cooked , so the purpose of pre-cooking is to tenderize . According to <URL> , this can be done by hanging the octopus out to dry and then beating the crap out of it , but that sounds like more trouble than simply poaching . If your octopus is already cleaned ( i.e. ink sac , stomach , and beak removed ) then all you need to do is pop it into a covered pot on high heat - after a few minutes , it will give up a lot of its liquid . Turn the heat down to low , keep covered , and let it braise for at least an hour ( or more - a restaurant I used to work in that served octopus cooked it sous vide for a good 10 hours ) . If the pot starts to run dry , add a bit of water . You can also add flavoring agents like garlic , wine , herbs , etc. to the braise if you like or just let the octopus hang out in its own juices . After braising , you could either break down your octopus right away or bring it whole to the BBQ ( somewhat diminished in size , but still impressive ! ) and cut it up there . You will want to separate the tentacles from the body and cut the head sac into strips either way . If you leave it whole , it will cook unevenly because of the varying thickness of the flesh . Cook over the hottest part of the grill to finish , just to bring the flesh up to temperature and add a little char . Skewering the tentacles with a little olive oil and salt will work just fine , but the flavor is fairly mild if you did n't add anything to the braise so a sauce or glaze is a fine idea . That same restaurant got rave reviews with a simple sauce of olive oil , garlic , paprika , and a touch of sherry vinegar .
This is generally referred to as " lacto-fermented " mayonnaise . The whey is assumed to have active bacteria , and most recipes insist on a room temperature rest for at least several hours . During this time , I suppose the assumption is that the bacteria from the whey will ferment and produce sufficient acidity to act as a preservative ( as in sauerkraut or something ) . The idea is not completely without merit . As discussed in my answer to <URL> , there is a well-documented and validated food science procedure for killing off harmful bacteria in homemade mayonnaise , which involves sufficient acid content and a rest at room temperature before refrigeration . Mayonnaise that follows this advice should be roughly as shelf-stable as commercial mayonnaise , and its acidity will make it a poor growth medium for most harmful bacteria . It will generally deteriorate in quality not due to spoilage bacteria , but due to oils going rancid and other such processes that will degrade texture and flavor over a period of weeks . On the other hand , I have serious doubts that a few hours at room temperature with a tablespoon of whey is going to produce a consistent level of acidity to ensure safety and longer preservation . You simply do n't know the bacteria count and activity in the whey , how well it may grow ( if at all ) in the mayonnaise , and how much it will lower the pH. ( In a quick search , I could n't find comparable food science research on using lactofermentation to achieve safe homemade mayo , but it may be out there . It sounds implausible to me , not least because of the lack of sufficient food in mayo for the lactic fermentation to produce a lot of acidity . ) If you want to make safe homemade mayo , you need sufficient acidity . Usually that comes from lemon juice or vinegar . It 's that simple . And with adequate acidity , it will likely have a reasonable shelf life of more than just a few days . There is further advice and thoughts on that issue <URL> . But I would not recommend this whey-based technique to ensure food safety . EDIT : Despite the huge number of recipes online for lacto-fermented mayonnaise , I 've been unable to find any reputable food scientist vouching for even the possibility of significant fermentation occurring in mayonnaise . Nobody reputable even discusses it ( probably since , as I said above , it does n't make a lot of sense ) . Anyhow , I did manage to find this , in a <URL> maintained by a prominent fermentation Facebook group : MYTH : Mayonnaise can be fermented by adding a bit of whey or sauerkraut juice and letting it sit on the counter for [ x ] hours . FACT : Oil can not be fermented , and mayonnaise is primarily oil with a small amount of egg yolk emulsified into it . All bacteria have an absolute moisture threshold necessary for their survival and function , which mayonnaise does n't provide ... The amount of moisture that is available for use is called the Water Activity level , or aW . Pure water has an aW of 1.0 . Lactic acid bacteria require a minimum aW of 0.94 , but not much activity will occur below 0.95 and a level closer to 1.0 is needed for vigorous growth . Mayonnaise has an aW of 0.93 or lower ... I would n't say this qualifies as a reputable source for food science ( and I have n't checked the facts ) , but the reasoning is plausible , as bacteria simply do n't grow well in mayonnaise . If anyone can find any better food science on topic , I 'd be interested .
Per the information on <URL> , there is no mention of the pan being pre-seasoned . But there is also no mention of needing to do so . From the maintenance tab on the linked page : Before you cook Remove all labels and packaging materials . Before using your new cookware , wash thoroughly in hot soapy water using a soft cloth or sponge . Dry completely . General cooking tips Prior to each use , it is recommended to add a teaspoon of cooking oil for better cooking results . Never heat an empty utensil . Be sure there is oil , butter , liquid or food before placing the cookware on the range or burner . It is not recommended to use high heat . Cooking on excessive heat can cause permanent damage to the surface and utensil . Never cut anything in the cookware or use utensils with sharp edges as to avoid damaging the surface . Add salt to water only after is has come to a boil . Salt grain deposit on the cookware bottom will attack the metal as the heat melts it down . There is also other information about cleaning and oven use . All said , I do n't follow a set rule about seasoning non-stick cookware even though I 've often seen it recommended . But when I have heated oil in a non-stick pan it does seem to do better afterwards , especially with older pans . And I always hand wash non-stick cookware . To sum up , I do n't see how you could cause any harm by pre-seasoning the pan and occasionally reseasoning , even if it does n't need it . But this is based on my experience and I have n't used this brand . The only other thing I can suggest is to contact the company and see what they say . Since they do n't mention pre-seasoning , I suspect they will say it is n't necessary . If you do contact them , we 'd be interested in what you find out . And welcome to Seasoned Advice ! EDIT : I was assuming that the OP knew about seasoning a non-stick pan , as the question is about how to tell if a non-stick pan is pre-seasoned when new . To be very clear , seasoning a non-stick pan is NOT the same thing as seasoning a cast iron or other bare metal pan . Should you ( or anyone ) decide to season a non-stick pan , please make sure to follow a recommended procedure .
Speaking as someone who 's had to prep ahead two garbage barrels of sweet potatoes for a giant gumbo event : If you 're just peeling them a few hours ahead , then just hold them whereever . Unlike russet potatoes , sweet potatoes ( especially garnet yams ) do not turn brown or lose texture on exposure to air . If you 're going to be holding them for a couple days , then drop them in cold water and refrigerate it . Or drop them in ice water and add more ice about twice a day ( this is what we had to do , it took 2 days to prep all the ingredients ) . Wrapping them tightly in plastic wrap might also work , but I have n't tried it .
No peeling is needed . A good wash and proper cooking will handle all of your food safety needs .
end question
start question
Difference between scones and biscuit ?
<URL> ( UK usage ) are a quick bread , usually moderately sweet . They are baked on a sheet pan , sometimes sliced into wedges , sometimes cut into rounds or other shapes . They are similar to , but sweeter than American style biscuits . Biscuits ( UK usage ) or cookies ( US usage ) are very small , flat cake-like confections , usually rich in butter and sugar . They are also baked on sheet pans , in individual portions typically only a couple of inches across ( although sizes vary widely ) . They come in a myriad varieties and flavors . Typical flavorings are vanilla , chocolate , nuts , citrus . Some of the simpler varieties allow the butter flavor to come through . Biscuit ( US usage ) or tea biscuit ( UK usage , one variant ) are a type of quick bread charactarized by flat , flaky layers . They are typically cut in rounds a couple of inches across , and tend to be about an inch tall . They are usually only very lightly sweetened if sweetened at all . Tea biscuit ( UK usage , another variant ) or teacake are biscuits or cookies traditionally served with tea . They tend to be fairly neutral in flavor . Muffins ( UK usage ) or English muffins ( US usage ) are small yeast-raised breads which are griddled in rings , rather than baked in an oven . They tend to be a couple of inches across , and about half an inch tall . They are often split and served toasted . Muffins ( US usage ) or American Muffins ( UK usage ) are a quick bread , usually moderately sweet , baked in single serving portions in muffin tins ( the same pans used for cupcakes ) .
The difference for green onions will be most noticable if you do n't cook them . Instead , slice them up and use them for a garnish over the dish . The white portion of the green onion will still be oniony , but not quite as strong as a raw red onion . Slice them thinly and use for garnish if you really want to bring out the onion qualities of them . If you do n't want it too strong , then add them when you 're cooking . ( and you might not want to slice them as thin ) . The green portion gives a more mild onion taste but also some of the grassy quality that you might get from chives . I treat them like a fresh herb , chop them up , and add in them in the last minute of cooking or I do n't cook them at all . As for substitution ... I 'd only plan to do it if you were cooking for someone who did n't like onions , as they 're milder and come in smaller portions than bulb onions , so it 's easier to control amounts without any waste . ... and I 'd do it if I had them on hand but did n't have bulb onions around . If you 're just looking for a good way to feature the green onions -- grill them . Trim the ends off , clean off any dirt , give them a coat of oil , then toss them on a hot pan or grill . They make a great side dish . Other good uses are to add them into scrambled eggs , green onion pancakes , or press them into naan before cooking it . ... For the white onions , the opposite is true -- they 're generally stronger than red onions . Most people do n't serve it as a raw garnish unless it 's very thinly sliced and used in small amounts . It 's still used raw , but it tends to be blended into other things such as pico de gallo , or guacamole , where the pungency of the onion helps to balance out the sweetness of the tomatoes or richness of the avocado . I 'm having difficulty thinking of a dish where the qualities of the white onion would stand out , though . My only idea is french onion soup , because it just comes out lacking if you make it with sweeter red or yellow onions ... but unless you made them side by side and compared them , I do n't know that you 'd see the difference . You might try cooking them slowly over medium heat until they caramelize ... it 'd let you feature the onions without them being overwhelming , and it brings out some of their more interesting qualities .
Yes there is a significant difference between the two . I would put them at pretty close to opposite ends of the coffee spectrum . French Press : Generally made with a coarse grind , longer steeping time . Result is a weaker ( less concentrated ) more typical American style coffee . This will likely be consumed in the same way as a typical filtered , drip coffee would . Moka Pot : Made with a much finer grind . And while many will argue it 's not true espresso . It is much closer to being an espresso . I do n't really care what you call it , but it 'll be a much stronger more robust coffee . The same amount of coffee will be extracted to a smaller quantity of water . This would be consumed in the same way as an espresso would . You can water it down to make an Americano , etc. . .
If I recall correctly the differences are slight , but significant . Both have a subtle , delicate flavour with an exceptionally light texture . The Victorian is usually regarded as the healthier , lighter of the two , but I believe this is mostly due to the Génoise usually being rendered as a layer cake with a lavish buttercream filling , though if I remember right it can also be used as a base for madeleines and ladyfingers . The Victorian can be baked thin and carefully rolled with cream for Swiss rolls . The main difference is the Victorian slices disorderly and ' crumby ' while the Génoise retains its form neatly . Both are accompanied well by , and are traditionally served with hot beverages namely tea and coffee . The Italian creation is undecidedly the more complex one to prepare . You 're right about separating the egg whites and beating them separately aerating the mixture further , but I 'm not certain if it would make a noticeable difference in case of sponge cakes but I 'd love it if someone could comment on this .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
White , green , oolong , and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds , the only difference is how they are processed . You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties . Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps , but in rough order of least-to-most processed : White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized , meaning it retains the natural antioxidants , but does not develop as much flavor , color , or caffeine . Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic . ( Chinese Silver needle white tea ) Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation , halted by additional pan-frying ( Chinese teas ) or steaming ( Japanese ) steps . The additional processing brings out more flavor , and allows for caffeine to develop , at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants . Characteristic flavors are grassy , vegetal , and earthy , with sweet notes . ( Japanese Sencha ) Oolong tea gets partial fermentation , and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors . Oolong can range in color from dark green to black . The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery &amp; earthy flavors . Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them . It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea . Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess : ( light oolong ) Black Oolong : ( Wu Yi ) Black tea is fully fermented , which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins . It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine , but the least antioxidants . ( Chinese keemun ) Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented , meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation . Microorganisms work on the tea , changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses . Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions ( 10-15 years being ideal ) , but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used . Pu-erh develops a richer , more complex flavor , and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties . Before post-fermentation , it may resemble a white , green , or oolong tea , but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors , giving a unique character . Pu-er Cake Rooibos , sometimes called red tea , is made from another plant entirely , Aspalathus linearis . It is a traditional South African infusion , prepared like a black tea but without caffeine . There are two varieties , green and red . Green is un-oxidized , where red is oxidized . Rooibos is characterized by a sweet , woody/malty flavor . Health-wise , it is a source of anti-oxidants , may aid in digestion , and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies . Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis , whose leaves are steeped like tea . It is generally toasted in processing , and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee . Despite its caffeine , mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles , so you do n't get jitters , and it also helps control appetite . The flavor is vegetal and herbal , and can be bitter if brewed hot . Although it contains antioxidants , this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting , and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates . Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs , fruits , spices , and flowers which are steeped like teas , but do not contain tea leaves . Generally , the ingredients are dried , although fresh ingredients can be used too . To confuse matters further , black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them , giving a similar result .
Traditionally <URL> used radiant heat to cook meat . This would have taken place over an open flame , typically on a rotating <URL> . In modern times this method is now called <URL> . Modern roasting refers to dry heat cooking that takes place in an oven , the food is cooked by <URL> . Until the late 19th century this method was referred to as baking . <URL> is essentially the same as roasting in modern times . Baking most often refers specifically to the cooking of " baked goods " ( breads , pastries , etc. ) . However , the terms baking and roasting are often used interchangeably ( baked chicken , roast chicken ) . There does n't seem to be a hard and fast rule here as to which term is used . For example , you roast asparagus , turkey , chicken , but bake lasagna , casseroles , and also chicken . <URL> uses a combination of moist and dry heat to cook the food . This is what occurs in a crock pot , or in dutch oven/stock pot in the oven . Your meat will be cooked in an ample amount of seasoned liquid such as wine and/or stock . <URL> I had never heard of before . According to Wikipedia it 's a trademarked method of pressurized deep frying . I doubt this is what you were referring to .
Yes , you can detect the difference . How much of a difference will depend on the quality of both the imitation and of the real thing . That said , it 's difficult if not impossible for me to pick out the differences in baked goods . So I keep both around , and use the ( much cheaper ) imitation stuff for baking , and the real stuff for sauces , icing , custards , milkshakes , etc. . Incidentally ... In a pinch , bourbon makes a half-decent substitute for vanilla .
春卷 ( Chūnjuǎn , Spring rolls ) are julienned vegetables , sometimes with a bit of noodles , sometimes with a bit of minced meat , wrapped with a flour dough skin and pan - or deep-fried . They are a filled roll . You can see the different varieties by country here : <URL> Spring roll : 鸡蛋卷 ( Jīdàn juǎn , Egg rolls ) are many different things around the world . In Chinese communities , these typically refer to a sweet biscuit type roll , of hollow flaky egg pastry ( not filled . ) However , there is also another variety ( common in American Chinese cuisine ) where a flour dough wrap is filled with " pork , shrimp , or chicken , adding cabbage , carrots , bean sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried . " In the American Chinese respect , I believe it is very similar to a Spring roll really , although the flour dough looks thicker and of a different composition than a typical Spring roll ( the dough bubbles when deep-fried , with Spring roll skin it does not . ) <URL> Sweet egg roll : American Chinese egg roll :
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
When you are making blueberry muffins , frozen and fresh blueberries will give different end results . Frozen blueberries will almost " melt " when you bake the muffins , because the skin becomes more fragile after freezing . If you use fresh blueberries , they will be more intact after baking and will sometimes still " burst " when you bite into them . Which of these outcomes you prefer is entirely subjective ( though obviously frozen are better ) . As for the taste , some blueberries will have more taste than others . If they are grown out of season , they will most likely be flavourless . This goes for both fresh and frozen blueberries . I 've found a brand of frozen blueberries that I use for muffins that give a have a nice taste year around : others may be terrible . For the remark your wife made about frozen blueberries being rotten : I do n't know where you live , but that is most certainly forbidden in the US and Europe , and probably most places where frozen blueberries are available . That is the only part of her argument that was most definitely wrong . Everything else is subjective or depends on the specific brand of blueberries or even the time of year .
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
<URL> , at its most basic , is egg yolk and oil , with a little vinegar , whipped into an emulsion . <URL> starts with oil and garlic , and sometimes vinegar or lemon . Some versions ( French-Provençal , apparently ) add egg yolk for an end result close to mayonnaise , but the yolk is not required . <URL> is a cooked sauce made from egg yolk and butter , sometimes flavored with lemon and pepper . I think it must have a much larger ratio of egg yolk to other ingredients in it , since it remains brightly yellow and thick . <URL> is a variation of hollandaise , which uses white wine vinegar to emulsify the egg yolks and butter , and flavors the resulting sauce with shallot , chervil , and tarragon . Like an aioli , it is not defined by the emulsion but by the flavoring agents . Adding terragon and capers , or tarragon and shallots , to a hollandaise ( or other egg-yolk emulsion sauce ) will produce a ' faux-bearnaise ' . The garlic defines the aioli , which is also the only one that can be made without egg yolk . The choice of butter rather than oil makes a hollandaise , and it is cooked as a sauce to set the yolks ( which neither of the others require ) . The yolk and oil combination itself is the central concept of mayonnaise , while it can be flavored , it does n't have to be . The sauces are quite similar , though , and an emulsion of egg yolk with seasonings might be called by any name . The difference between a garlic mayo and a french-style aioli are likely to be pretty subtle . Likewise , a mayo flavored with lemon and pepper will be hard to distinguish from a hollandaise which uses oil - although hollandaise is usually cooked to set it , so the texture may be different . And a aioli with butter will be very similar to a hollandaise with garlic . Adding tarragon and shallot to any of them is likely to produce a bearnaise type sauce . All three recipes are very loose and broadly defined , since they can be tweaked a lot depending on preferences - so it makes it hard to pin down other factors like ingredient ratios that might distinguish the recipes . The sauces that add flavorings or substitute ingredients will tend to be named one or the other based more on recipe origin , familiarity , and marketing rather than any clearly defined difference .
They 're rather different . Gyros are Greek in origin . They are simply meat , tomatoes , onion , and tzatziki sauce on pita . In Greece the meat is typically pork ( never had one ) . In America , specifically here in Chicago ( their local origin ) , the meat is a combination of beef &amp; lamb . Shwawarma is Middle Eastern in origin . The possible toppings are much more diverse , and can include : tahini , tabouli , fattoush , cucumber , and hummus . Tzatziki is n't typically used , at least not in America . The meat is also never pork , it can be lamb , beef or chicken . They owe their similarities to their common Turkish ancestor the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There are several factors that increase price . Some are related to the objective quality of the wine , some indirectly linked , other are rather disconnected from quality ( but not necessarily irrelevant , as we 'll see ) . It 's also worth noting that being of high quality does n't necessarily mean being appealing to the average consumer . Apart from the stuff listed below , mass-market wines tend to be made in a non-challenging , easily accessible style . Lower tannin levels , less acidity and a generous amount of residual sugar ( say 10-30g / l ) makes for easy quaffing but little complexity or elegance . They can be very well-made , but the agriculture may not be very sustainable , and the fruit probably is n't of the highest quality . ( If you visit a winery at harvest when they bring in the bulk wine fruit , the meaning of " quality " becomes rather apparent . ) Wines targeted at connoisseurs , wine snobs and wine geeks ( such as yours truly ) tend have more structure ( tannins , acidity ) and are more often completely dry ( although there are of course high-quality off-dry , semi-sweet , and sweet wines ) . There 's a limit to how much a producer can spend to increase quality , a limit which varies with location ( because of salaries for workers etc ) but around $ 100 per bottle is probably in the right order of magnitude . This does not mean that all wines above this magical limit are equally good , though . A dirt-cheap wine will also have a cost associated to it which will be payed for by someone else , like under-payed harvest workers , the environment around the vineyard , etc. . Below are some factors that have a more or less direct link to wine quality and/or character : Yield per acre : Limiting the vineyard 's yield per acre ( which can be achieved by sparser planting , thinning / <URL> , old vines , etc ) increases the quality of the fruit , but you will produce less wine with more or less the same amount of work , which means you 'll have to adjust the price . Number of harvesting tries : At harvest , you can pick all the fruit of one vineyard at the same time and be done with it . Unfortunately , not all bunches ripen at exactly the same time , so to avoid over - or under-ripe grapes , you can make multiple tries ( French , pronounced " trees " ) over several days and pick each bunch at optimal ripeness . More tries inevitably means more work , and so , price increases . Selection : When the harvest is brought in , you can throw all the fruit into the press , or you can select the best grapes to make your wine ( and make brandy or a <URL> of the discarded grapes , or sell them on to a bulk wine producer ) . Being picky reduces the amount of wine produced , and so , prices increase . Drying : Some wines , like <URL> and <URL> , are made from partially dried grapes , and drying decreases the amount of wine you produce ( apart from being extra work ) which means - more expensive wine . Sparkling : Sparkling wines made with the <URL> - like <URL> and <URL> - need to be disgorged after bottle fermentation , which leads to a certain amount of waste ( a Cava producer I talked to said that around 10 % of the original wine is lost in disgorgement ) . Oak aging : Many wines are <URL> , which greatly affects the character of the wine compared to other types of containers , like concrete or stainless steel vats . ( More oak does n't mean better wine , of course . ) Oak barrels are horribly more expensive than the alternatives ( and European oak is more expensive than American , and they impart different character ) , and so , the more oak you use , the more expensive the wine gets . Aging in general : Most high-quality wine receive a bit of aging before consumption to let all components integrate ; some designations of origin even require aging prior to selling . <URL> Gran Reserva , for example , must be aged at least three years , with at least one of those years being on oak , while vintage <URL> is mandated to rest three years on the <URL> , etc. . Apart from time being money , you also need a suitable storage location ( cool and humid but not too cool and humid , secure but accessible to yourself , etc ) which is far from free . The price increases . Other factors are n't causally linked to higher quality , but tend to be connected : Reputation : If you 're an unproven winemaker you will be able to charge more if you 're operating in a district of high repute than if you 're working in an area where no-one has made quality wine before . Conversely , a well-known , high-quality producer expanding their operations to a somewhat less proven district will likely be able to charge more than their new neighbours . Brand : Marketing can take many forms , such as it advertising , tailoring wines to suit <URL> , and tends to push prices up . Wineries can even try <URL> . You can also be lucky and find some great , undiscovered producer ( do n't tell anyone ! except me , that is ) selling their wines at more-or-less cost price ( which probably still wo n't be dirt cheap , though ) . Land prices : Some spots are better for growing grapes . If you 're in
I wo n't offer any suggestions on what type of herbs you should use in your recipes - that is entirely up to you and what you like . Experiment with different flavors and combinations from a basic base , or there are plenty of recipes freely available on the <URL> for savory breads . The technical answer is , generally dried herbs are preferable when baking because they contribute no moisture to the recipe , and because they generally have lots of time to infuse their flavor into the dough . Fresh herbs are nice ( and it sounds like you have plenty of them available ) but you need to <URL> : Dried herbs have a more concentrated flavor , so you will need to need to use a larger quantity of fresh herbs when substituting them for dried in recipes . The most common rule of thumb seems to be about 3 times the amount of fresh herbs for dried , maybe a bit lower if you 've got really nice and fresh herbs with intense flavor . Certain leafy herbs ( basil , mint ) will retain and contribute some moisture . It 's doubtful that you 'll be using enough in any recipe to throw off its water balance , but beware of using large amounts . if you want a strong flavor for these herbs it 's best to use dried . Also , these items can get really bitter when bruised or otherwise mistreated , and that bitterness will wind up in your bread . Not so tasty . Particular herb flavors will stand up very well to baking , and others will not . I find that some savory flavors like thyme and oregano mellow out when baked but still retain their character . Rosemary will work well in baked goods but has a very intense flavor , so you 'll want to use a bit less than other herbs . Other delicate flavors like mint do n't do well when baked , both because of the bruising problem noted above and because they 're so delicate . Also note that it 's pretty easy , if a little time-intensive , to <URL> , which is a great idea for extended storage .
If the cocktail is from the 1800 's it 's just the place of origin . Nowadays the two are both fairly strong rums . They taste almost the same except the Jamaican Rum ( where I live ) is cheaper .
There is a wide range of pancake variants . <URL> are an egg-white leavened pancake often served with fruit and nuts , with the pancake itself being shredded for presentation . This is different than the most typical pancakes served in the US , which are not egg-white leavened , but baking powder leavened , but it is still a type of pancake .
There does n't appear to be any difference . Wikipedia says " In English-speaking countries , Berliners are usually called doughnuts and are usually filled with jam , jelly , custard or whipped cream " , and <URL> says " The English translation of krapfen is cruller or doughnut " . There are so many variations of filling , topping , shape and so forth that it is hard to establish a single identity anyhow .
Yes , there is a difference in taste . I think it 's the chlorophyll , but I may be wrong . But the green asparagus has a " vegetable " or " grassy " taste which is n't present in the white asparagus . The white one has its own distinct aroma , which is less pronounced in the green one . As for texture , Caleb already said it . White asparagus is more tender , if you buy it fresh enough . On the other hand , non-tender green asparagus is snappy and somewhat brittle , like a normal stalk . Non-tender white asparagus is tough and stringy . When I cook white asparagus , I remove the lowest part ( the most stringy one ) and peel it ( the outer layer is especially string prone ) and sometimes , if it turns out to be low quality/old , it still has an unpleasant texture . The green one seldom requires removal of the lower part , and never peeling . Violet asparagus is like white one in both taste and texture , but not as common . Oh , and what Caleb says about both being the same plant is correct , but I have never heard of little shades . All farmers in Germany grow white asparagus underground . They make mounds of earth above the place where the asparagus is planted , and it has to grow a lot before it reaches the surface . They also cover the mounds with black foil to get the earth warm in spring . The harvest starts sometime in April and ends by tradition on June 24 . It is done by hand , because machines would break the rods . This makes it a quite costly vegetable . And it should be eaten fresh , because the longer it spends outside of the earth , the stringier it gets . I do n't share the common German enthusiasm for white asparagus ( " royal vegetable " etc. ) but think that it is a good vegetable in its own right . If you can get it fresh , it is worth eating now and then .
end question
start question
Why is rice parboiled ? And how does parboiling change rice ?
The following excerpt answers questions 1 and 2 . Additionally it reduces the cooking time for the parboiled rice . Also known as converted rice , parboiled rice has been pressure-steamed and then dried in its natural outer husk ( which is later removed ) . This process hardens the starch in the grains so they remain firmer , less sticky , and separate when cooked . It also forces the vitamins and minerals from the outer layer of the grains into the endosperm , which is the part we eat . This makes parboiled rice a more nutritious option than regular ( unenriched ) white rice , which does n't retain any of the goodness of the nutrient-rich husk . There are several techniques you can use to prevent unprocessed cooked rice from sticking to each other : Use medium to long grain rice . Rinse the rice until the rinsing water is completely clear . Use the Boil and Steam method to cook the rice . In this method boil the rice for 5-10 minutes . Then pour off the excess water and steam the rice for an additional 10 minutes . This method of cooking the rice reduces the most starch on the outside of the rice which is what causes the sticking . Source : <URL>
It depends a great deal on the kind of rice you use . My father always steamed rice in a closed pot with a measured amount of water using American long grain rice . The ratio was one cup rice to two cups of water . When I got my own place I used the boiling method but chose Basmati rice , as is commonly used in india . This rice has a longer grain and holds its shape after cooking . I tried the boiling method with American long grain rice and found it also worked well . There is no need to measure the water as you cook by timer and taste the rice before draining . It 's something similar to how you might cook pasta . Contrary to what ElendilTheTall said in his answer , when boiling rice you do not have to make careful measurements of rice an water . You put in enough rice for how ever many people and an excess of water . Too much water . You cook the rice in an open pan , so you can see it . When the rice has cooked long enough , you pick out a few grains on your fork and taste them . If they are just soft enough , not too soft , then you quickly drain the water in a sieve or colander and serve . Timing is crucial . Now , when I move to China , I found a very different kind on rice . It was shorter grained and required several washes before could be cooked . This rice did n't boil well . The unless really well washed , the rice powder in the water turns in into something reassembling wall paper paste . Instead the steaming method must be used . To steam you need to carefully measure the rice and water to get the correct ration . You put on the heat and cover . When the rice has boiled almost dry , you take it off the heat and serve .
I am accustomed to the boil-and-drain method of cooking rice . If you like your rice very soft/mushy , you can even cook rice 3.5:1 and wait until all water has evaporated on moderate-to-low heat ( this is how my grandma always does it ) . The texture is different from the aldente 2:1 rice common in the USA , but I think the preference is a matter of habit . It is perfectly possible to boil and then drain rice , although 6:1 is an uncommonly high ratio of water to rice . Obviously , Consumer Reports are more concerned with leeching contaminants out of the rice than with culinary aspects such as convenience and taste . Still , the rice cooking method exists , and there is no culinary objection against it except that some people do n't like the resulting soft texture . The boil-and-drain method ( actually simmer-and-drain ) is often combined with first frying the rice in oil until translucent , as for pilaf , but it is not technically required . You can just simmer in salted water until it has reached the desired consistency ( depending on the type of rice you used , it will be somewhere on the spectrum between soft separate grains and a sticky soft mass where you have trouble separating the grains ) , then remove from the heat and drain . Add your aroma after the draining , as you do n't want to throw it out with the water .
When tomatoes are fried , you can see that the oil becomes coloured red - so at least some of the colour components are preferentially soluble in oil . I will hazard a guess that , under the circumstances mentioned , the oil coats the tomato particles , and some of the colour migrates into it to give a red surface . Because the oil forms a coating , that coat will inhibit oxidation . The oil will also improve the mouth feel of the soup . Just the way I see it ...
As I understand it , it 's down to the flavour you get from frying the rice . However , it does also break down some of the starch which reduces the thickening it can do when the risotto cooks , which might cause a problem . I can attest to the flavour , but I 've not done experiments about thickening . Serious Eats had a good article on the topic though , in which such experiments were described . The solution in that was to wash the rice in the stock , then fry the rice , then add the stock containing all that undamaged free rice starch during cooking , thus giving you toasty flavour and creamy risotto with no questions asked . I have n't tried that , but it seems like a fairly sound idea to me . <URL>
If you can get it , sherry is usually a good bet but since you ca n't , I 've used just regular white wine before as a substitute when you 're cooking a dish but you just need to be a little less liberal as you might be with rice wine as I find the flavour tends to be a little stronger . Another alternative is Sake , but I 'm assuming that if you ca n't get rice wine , you 'll struggle to find Sake .
Quinoa . I only recently discovered it as part of doing P90X , and man , it 's so , so delicious . It 's kind of a nutty flavour that goes really well with sauces . It 's also pretty high in protein , which is good . Note that this is n't " no-carb " , though it is lower in carbs than rice . It 's important that you wash quinoa before you prepare it . Otherwise , it 's prepared in a very similar way , 2-1 water-to-quinoa , boiled and simmered .
That depends on the rice . I have done my own measurements in the past ( I hate volumetric measurements , ) and found : 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Brown rice ( medium grain ? ) weighed 142g . 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Calrose rice ( medium grain ) weighed 150g . Both were Australian grown rice . The rice cooker cup 's top measurement is 160ml , but I always fill to the brim because ... I 'm too lazy to look at the notch . Why is the weight different ? Because different grains of rice can wedge together more efficiently ( less air pockets . ) The weight measurement for a long grain rice like Basmati would be different again . TL ; DR : buy a scale to be accurate .
I do n't know about weather , but non-factory produced milk changes with the season because of the feed , which <URL> . Over the winter , the cows are fed hay or corn , while over the summer , they 're pastured , so get fresh grass . In the Netherlands , there are designations such as ' <URL> ' ( literally , ' grass chesse ' ) , which is made from the milk when the cows are first released to pasture in the spring . I know there is a designation for winter vs. summer cheese as well , but it 's not coming back to me .
I 've cooked white rice , brown rice , wild rice , whole Oat Groats ( 2 brown rice cycles + a little extra water on cycle two ) , rye groats , Khorasan wheat ( kamut ) , barley , Spelt , and numerous other seeds in my fuzzy logic rice cooker , but never Quinoa . It seems to me the white Quinoa seed benefits from a short cook time , and a long post-cooking expansion time . A rice cooker does n't do that very well . The red Quinoa I can also get is tougher , and might like being cooked like brown rice . That said , I have n't tried it . It 's certainly possible that your rice cooker could make passable Quinoa . I suggest you give it a try on a small batch . If you like the result , post that here , and I 'll try it too .
Coconut has a very mild flavor that is easily drowned by other things . In my experience , coconut rice does not end up tasting very strongly of coconut , although it is richer and slightly sweeter . I notice that many recipes call for salt and sugar , which are both flavor potentiators . Perhaps you could try these . At the end of the day , though , I fear you may have to use natural flavor , often falsely labeled as an " extract . " ( I have not been able to extract real coconut flavor well , and I 've never found a commercial product that does , either . ) Unfortunately , for some ingredients , this seems to be the only way to get the flavor I have come to expect from restaurants . Another such ingredient is pistachio .
It 's an issue of thermodynamics . When you 're cooking food , the food cools itself off through evaporative cooling and the energy being used to cause chemical changes in the food ( eg , caramelizing sugars ) . If you have too much food in the pan , the balance is overwhelmed by evaporative cooling , and thus you can only get to the boiling point of water . To change the equation , you need to do one of the following : Use a more powerful heat source . Cook less food at a time Reduce the amount of moisture in the food before cooking it . You 'll often see advice for # 3 -- such as patting dry steak or chicken before grilling it , as without it , you wo n't get good browning . You ca n't do that when you 're dealing with sauces . You can try cooking less , but with sauces you cause more problems -- if the pan size is the same , the area for evaporation is the same , so you do n't really improve the balance . With a sufficiently sized burner , you can actually heat sauces above the boiling point , as you 're putting in energy faster than evaporation can cool it . This which will change the chemical reactions that occur , thus the resulting chemical compounds and the resulting flavor of the food .
No . It is not general practice to add bleach to rice . The brown rice bran is removed through mechanical processes . As to whether he should continue to indulge this worry ... I 'd be more concerned about [ insert common American male problem here ] before ammonia in rice . <URL> This review has many free references in it . Should you want further peer-review reading , I can provide it .
Oil or fat is absolutely not necessary to cook rice . I suspect you may have been taught the pilaf method where the rice is first sauteed in oil or butter , and then liquid is added and the rice is fully cooked . The purpose of the pilaf method is to add depth of flavor . When making pilafs , additional herbs , spices , or aromatics ( such as onions ) are often included . If you have been taught to add oil without the sauteeing , then the only purpose of it would be to add flavor . It wo n't really help prevent sticking , and is n't needed for the rice to cook properly . There are many methods to cook rice in addition to the pilaf method , and many to do not require any fat . Simply boiling or steaming in water is completely traditional in many Asian cuisines . In some cuisines , the crusty rice that sticks to the bottom of the pot or rice cooker is actually highly prized ( see Wikipedia 's <URL> article ) . You can mitigate the crusting of the rice by making sure to use the lowest flame or heat setting that will keep the rice steaming . I actually prefer to put the whole pot in a moderate oven , rather than do it on the stove top . You can also use the pasta method of simply boiling the rice in water , and then draining it when it is done to your liking , to completely avoid the crust . This will result in less sticky rice since the surface starches will be left in the boiling water . I understand this method is popular in some parts of India and Pakistan .
If you use the buttercream option , let the icing dry a bit before putting the rice paper on , as too much moisture will cause it to collapse and the ink to run . Also , I would n't recommend pressing the rice paper down , but just patting it onto slightly tacky buttercream . White icing is best as the rice paper is quite translucent . The other alternative you suggest will work fine - place it on the cake and pipe around the edge to hold in place . I have seen this done many times . Best not to use a vivid colour for the piping as it could leech into the rice paper a bit .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
You can combine it with practically everything , so the question is somewhat broad . So my answer is equally broad : rice pairs well with fresh tastes and acidity , or with moderately sweet components . Or you can just underline its own slightly nutty notes . Below is a list of specific examples , but it is impossible to make it exhaustive . For fresh tastes , use herbs . Summer savoury and spearmint are the classics , I never make stuffed peppers without them . But other light tasting herbs are also a good choice - lemon balm , oregano . Rosmarin is sometimes good , but somewhat overpowering , it is better for a dish where the rice is cooked together with veggies ( eggplant , zucchini ) . Beside herbs , you can try more exotic seasonings . Lemon zests are good , finelly chopped grape leaves and shoots are great . Coriander powder should give you a similar taste profile to cilantro , but it is easier to keep at hand for when a quick dinner without much planning is needed . The sweet option is also interesting ; if you do n't overdo it , it is OK to serve it as a side dish for a savoury meal . The easiest way to achieve it is to cook the rice together chopped dry fruit . Sulfured raisins are popular , the dish will be somewhat si milar to pilaf . But others work too , I especially like dried apricots because they are slightly tart . Other methods for sweetening do n't really fall into the " dry seasoing " category , but are worth mentioning . You can add fruit juice to the cooking water ( apple or other slightly sour juices are best ; this will affect the starch in the rice , causing it to cook firmer than usual ) or you can add a small amount of sweetener to the cooked rice ( prefer aromatic sweeteners lik honey or C grade maple syrup ) . Or if you prefer it spicier , mix it with a sweet chutney , like mango . If you want a subtler taste , combine the rice with nuts ( cook them together ) . Always use nuts with the brown skin removed . I have found unroasted , finely chopped nuts to work better this way . Hazelnuts and almonds are a very good choice . Para nuts also pair well with rice , but are seldom availablr blanched + chopped . This works especially well if you use the parfrying method for the rice , frying in the oil of the nut used . However , I do n't know if you can parfry rice in a rice cooker , I always make mine on the stove .
I 'm by no means an official source , but it looks like a long grain rice is used . <URL> shows an example made with <URL> , and links to <URL> , which calls for long grain rice .
For rice it depends . Cooking any starch in water will first cause the starch granules to swell and eventually tangle up with each other ( the gelatinization ) . Dissolving sugars or salts in the water slows down the process by raising the temperature the swelling starts . While few prefer pasta as a stuck blob of strands , the same is not the case for rice . I like my Basmati loose , but my risotto and sushi sticky , so salt may be required for Basmati and optional for Arborio . There are many techniques for controlling the starch for rice . To control the starch gelatinization of rice : <URL> ; or <URL> Method 1 wo n't avoid the grain surface starch gelatinization , but it will help with stickiness ( you may oil coat it after draining ) . Method 2 delays the starch release allowing you to finish a risotto in seven minutes . Cool for parties or for restaurants .
I am going to assume you are cooking the rice on a pot rather than in rice cooker . If you are cooking it in the rice cooker , you would n't need to lift the lid to check for done-ness . However if you are cooking in a rice cooker , the lid should not be immediately lifted off after it says it is done cooking . You need to let it sit for about 5-10 minutes so the steam can continue to cook . If you are cooking in a pot , the main reason why you do not want to lift the lid is because you want a even cooking temperature throughout . Typically when you cook rice ( once again I am going to assume just plain white rice ) , you start the water/rice mixture by boiling it on high until it comes to a boil . I do recommend stirring it at this point . But not after covering . Then you set it to very low and cover and let it simmer for about 15-20 minute or more depending on quantity . By doing this , you can evenly cook the rice throughout so that the rice is n't too overcooked on the bottom . If you continue to lift the lid , the temperature would drop , and the top would be less cooked than the bottom . So you would need to cook it longer for the top to be cooked while the bottom is being overcooked . In addition , the steam that is escaping is the water that you put into the rice . thus when you lift the lid , the water is escaping and will result in the rice being dryer than optimal . If you want to add more water , this will slow the cooking process on top of it already being slowed by losing temperature when you lift the lid . This will result in slower cooked rice .
end question
start question
How did/do the Russians make carrot tea ?
You use the leaves , not the carrot themselves . I do n't know for sure this is what your Russian Civil War book was talking about , but I know it works , and besides , if they were desperate enough for acorn coffee and carrot tea , I imagine they were eating the carrots . <URL> suggests that you might need 1/4 cup of carrot greens per 1 cup of water ; you can find plenty more searching for " carrot top tea " .
Using a large amounts of seeds will significantly influence the humidity of your dough and bread . Dry seeds will soak up quite a bit of water - either during resting time or afterwards . This is especially bad when this soaking happens after baking , as your bread will get very dry ... Wholemeal tends to have the same effect . The best way to counteract this effect is to add more water and add more time This can be done either by pre-soaking the seeds , which will then " bring " the required extra water to the dough or letting a rather wet dough rest for a long time , preferably over night . The first approach is easier , because the seeds take up the required water " automatically " , the latter preferable taste-wise . Longer resting times allow for the development of complex flavors and need very little yeast or sourdough . As for recipes , you should be able to find plenty on the internet .
Ganache is made from chocolate and heavy whipping cream . You could add hot cream to the chocolate until you get the consistency you are looking for .
In general , you can roast peppers to develop a richer flavor . Then skin the pepper and you can use it for salsas , sauces , or just slice/dice it up for a sandwich .
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
TFD 's answer is true : the most likely change is the reduction in some astringent flavors . I would just add that people have been brewing black tea for iced tea for many years at or near room temperature ( e.g. , the traditional " sun tea " method ) , or even in the refrigerator ( " cold-brewed " tea ) . The flavor notes which come out are different , but a lot of people still find the tea produced to be acceptable or even preferable to " hot-brewed " tea . Granted , these processes are used mostly for tea meant to be consumed at cooler temperatures . But my point is that those who insist that black tea must be brewed as close to 100C as possible are just brewing one possible " version " of tea from those leaves . In my own experiments , I 've found that certain black teas taste good when brewed at lower temperatures for a long time , though others end up " unbalanced " in some way . ( Sometimes , they simply taste " weaker " for some reason , even when still brewed longer to take into account the lower temperature . Sometimes this can be fixed by adding more tea leaves per cup ; other times this still creates an imbalance . ) I could cite a number of studies which show the various amounts of certain chemical components in tea and how fast they dissolve at various temperatures . But those really wo n't take into account the balance of individual flavor components in a particular black tea . In this case , I think it 's really a matter of personal judgment to see whether your particular tea tastes fine to you brewed at a lower temperature .
You can give your candies hard shells by dipping them into a melted mixture of one part water , two parts sugar , and 1/2 part corn syrup . Melt those ingredients together over medium to medium-high heat until the sugar has totally dissolved and the mixture is at the hard crack stage ( 295-310 & deg ; F. / 146-154 & deg ; C. ) . Remove your pot of glaze from the heat and place it into a waiting metal bowl of ice water . Once the glaze has stopped bubbling , begin dipping your candies immediately . Once dipped , set them on an appropriate , lightly greased surface to cool ( use a flavorless oil or kitchen spray for greasing ) . You 'll want to skewer your candies to dip them ; never attempt to dip candies into hot glaze by hand . You 'll also want to set everything up for dipping before you make your glaze : have your bowl of ice water ready ; have a greased tray or marble slab/counter ready to receive your dipped candies ; have your kitchen to yourself ( distractions are n't good when working with hot glaze ) . Your glaze will cool very quickly , so work carefully but efficiently .
Torani Peach Syrup ! It 's readily available online or at coffee shop supply outlets . <URL>
Technically , your idea seems sound . But I would n't do it . What you are proposing to do in your electric kettle is very close to the standards for flash pasteurization . According to wikipedia , the standard procedure for flash pasteurization is to heat and circulate the liquid at 71.5 ° C ( 160 ° F ) to 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) , for about 15 to 30 seconds , which results in a five log ( 99.999 % ) or greater reduction in bacteria . Other journal articles seem to indicate that some protozoa like cryptosporidium are killed by flash pasteurization , but others , like giardia , might survive in small numbers . I suspect the guideline for boiling water in issues of safety and in recipes is used because steam and bubbles are such convenient guarantors of temperature . Psychologically , though , this makes me a little nervous . Personally , I would boil the water - if you have time for tea , you have time to boil water . It is possible , though , that you are a more adventurous tea drinker than I am .
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
I have been told that cedar , white and yellow pine , and many other variaties are safe in normal quantities and have high vitamin content . Some have supposed medicinal effect for headaches , such as cedar . My advice is to look up " tea " or " infusion " with each type of needle you want to try so you can avoid a poisonous concoction . As for white pine , I have made delicious tea for breakfast and for the canteen with it while camping and have survived so far . It goes quite well with wild mint .
how do they make sure the end product has the same look and taste as always ? This is the realm of quality control . It involves such activities as : developing processes that are as consistent as possible measuring the product against a standard identifying and eliminating sources of variation It 's easier to control a single large-scale process in a factory than small processes duplicated at many locations , so as much as possible they 'll deliver pre-mixed , pre-measured ingredients to retail locations . Equipment will be standardized and automated at each location . A recipe then becomes very hard to screw up , something like : Add one sack of standard donut mix , one container of eggs , and one bucket of water to the mixer . Press the " Mix-2 " button . When the mixer stops , transfer dough to sheeter/former and press the green button ... Disclaimer : I 've never worked in a franchise donut shop , and actual recipes may be more or less complicated than the made-up one above . But that 's the general idea , and it 's deployed widely in manufacturing whether or not the product is food . You can do some of the same things at home if you want to simplify a recipe that you make frequently . The easiest way to get started is to measure ingredients by weight ( if you do n't already ) . It 's a lot faster and easier to make , say , a bread recipe if you can skip the measuring cups and just pour flour into the mixing bowl until you reach the target weight . Repeat with water , yeast , salt , etc. . You do n't dirty any measuring cups , you 'll get more consistent results , and you 'll save time . Another step in that direction is to pre-mix whatever ingredients you can , so that you can make a big batch of mix once in a while and then measure out just one thing instead of four or five each time you make the recipe . Pre-mixing can reduce the shelf life of the ingredients , though , so it 's not always idea . If you ca n't pre-mix , then you can at least pre-measure ingredients , or use measuring tools that are suited to the quantities that you need . For example , if you make bread daily using 24oz . of flour , you might get a 12oz . scoop and pre-measure the salt and instant yeast into small containers . Then your recipe is something like : Add two scoops of flour , a container of salt , a container of yeast , and a pint of water to the mixer ... Of course , one of the nice things about home cooking is that it 's not exactly the same every time . Who wants to eat the same thing every day ?
Mayo that splits is typically from one of two things : Insufficient water Insufficient mixing leading to large droplets ( It 's hardly ever insufficient emulsifier , as one yolk can do many cups of mayo . ) The lack of mixing can happen fairly easily with a whisk , but it wo n't happen if you 're using a food processor , blender , or immersion blender . You 're probably normally making mayo that is on the border of insufficient water , so it 's fairly easy to get it to break . When you added more water , the emulsion actually became more stable . That explains why you ca n't get it to break , I have a few suggestions on how to fix : Freeze it . It should break upon thawing . If hand-mixed , use an immersion blender on it . That should thicken a little , by better mixing . ( Assuming you 're not using extra virgin olive oil , which should not be blended ) I 'm sure there are some thickeners that could be added , but I 've never tried thickening mayo like this . Keep in mind that some flavors are fat soluble , some are water soluble , so if you discard part of the water , you may be changing the flavor balance .
Dried vegetation usually suffers cell wall degradation . So when rehydrated all the oils and flavours will easily leach out . This is very desirable for vegetation you want to extract oils and flavours from Many " teas " are also partially fermented for additional flavour . This processes need to be stopped otherwise the whole plant will be consumed . Drying is the simplest way to stop fermentation , and make the product storable and transportable
That is simply caramelized sugar that coats the dish before the custard is poured in for baking . As the flan is chilled , the moisture from the custard liquefies the caramelized sugar and results in the sauce . If you 're wanting to make it for other desserts and are n't making flan , then simply caramelize sugar and then add water to it . Be careful as the steam can easily burn you if you 're standing over it . The sugar will seize up and then as it continues to cook the crytallized caramelized sugar will liquefy . You will then have caramelized sugar syrup .
TL ; DR = The sweet tea takes longer to cool down because there is a lot more stuff in it to get cold . When cooling unsweetened tea , you are cooling almost pure water ( the tea solids are negligible ) . A 12 ounce glass of unsweetened tea has about , you guessed it , 12 oz ( by weight ) of liquid to cool , or 340 grams ( mass ) . Southern-style sweet tea ( if this is the " sweet tea " you are referring to ) , has a 2:1 ratio ( by volume ) of tea to sugar . A 12 ounce glass of sweet tea has 12 oz ( by weight ) of tea , and 5-6 ounces of sugar ( by weight - 8 oz of sugar by volume = ~ 7 oz by weight ) . This puts the total weight of the beverage at 18 ounces or 510 grams ( by mass ) . The sweet tea , in this example , has 50 % MORE mass than the unsweetened tea ! This extra mass will take more time to cool down , because there is a lot more STUFF to get cold . It occupies the same volume , but there are a LOT more molecules to chill . Compounding factors : Heat Capacity vs. Specific Heat : A detail to this is that a solution of sugar and water has a lower specific heat ( by MASS unit ) than pure water , so the total heat capacity of the sweet tea is not quite 150 % of the heat capacity of the unsweetened tea , but somewhere between 100 % and 150 % . Intuition would put it somewhere in the 130 % -140 % range . Read the <URL> for some details on that calculation . Rest assured , however , that the heat capacity of the sucrose solution is higher than pure water . Conductivity : I 've ignored the thermal conductivity of the solution , since I 'm assuming that the stirring in the tea makes the small conductivity differences between the solutions negligible , but that calculation could be done as well . Convection : Unstirred sweet tea will experience less convection than unstirred unsweetened tea . In the unstirred sweet tea , dense sucrose solution will remain at the bottom while the cold water from the melting ice will sit on the surface ( you can actually see this visually if the tea is sufficiently colored ) . This slows cooling by slowing the mixing of the cold liquid with the warm liquid . In unsweetened tea the cool liquid will sink the bottom , promoting convection and self-mixing . However , convection is a side-issue to the primary point , the total heat capacity of the beverage . And as a final note , explanations like this really make it obvious how annoying it is that US measurements use ounces for both volume AND weight .
I 've never made seitan , but just like when making bread , gluten needs water to activate . I do n't know the precise amount . Oil , if anything , has the opposite effect , coating the gluten molecules and keeping them from linking up , which is why we use fat in pastries to keep them from getting tough .
If it 's " green tea powder " it 's probably <URL> . Matcha is finely ground powder of specially grown and processed green tea . It 's special in two aspects of farming and processing : The green tea plants for matcha are shade-grown for about three weeks before harvest , and the stems and veins are removed in processing . The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation , serving , and drinking of matcha . In modern times , matcha has also come to be used to flavour and dye foods such as mochi and soba noodles , green tea ice cream and a variety of wagashi ( Japanese confectionery ) . <URL> The drink you had in Thailand is probably an iced matcha shake of some sort , made with condensed milk . In Japan , the drink is served by itself as part of tea ceremonies and is opaque even without milk added to it . There 's a guide to how tea ceremonies work and the process of making tea <URL> , if you 're interested .
The pyramid teabag allows for more effective and faster extraction . This is because the tea bag retains its 3 dimensional shape , so there is plenty of space for the tea leaves , and more of their surface area is exposed for extraction . A conventional teabag actually becomes smaller , and there is less space and the tea leaves are pressed onto each other , creating a compressed little ball of tea . I think whoever invented the pyramid teabag had that in mind . I am not suggesting that the world was desperate for it though ;)
Seltzer and carbonated water are the same thing . Club soda is slightly different . <URL> The term seltzer water is a genericized trademark that derives from the German town Selters , which is renowned for its mineral springs . Naturally carbonated water has been commercially bottled and shipped from this town since the 18th century or earlier . Generally , seltzer water has no added sodium salts , while club soda still retains the sodium salts . So , the primary difference is that seltzer has no added ingredients , but <URL> : Sodium bicarbonate , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate and sodium citrate are added to club soda ... <URL> of the ingredients list and taste of various types of fizzy water . So to answer your question directly , you can make seltzer just by carbonating regular tap water , and you can make club soda by adding potassium bicarbonate , potassium sulfate , or baking soda to water and carbonating it .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of papillote on lamb bones ?
If you mean the little paper frills on the ends of the bones on a Frenched rack of lamb , those are purely decorative .
Personally , I 'd just season the pan a couple times to cover the spot ; it seems excessive to strip off all the other seasoning and start from scratch unless the pan is really deeply rusted . Other people may feel differently , of course ; there are as many opinions about caring for cast-iron as there are people that own it .
Mozzarella comes in different variations ... There are a few things to look and smell for to determine it they are " off " . Aged or drier varieties may have visible mold on the exterior . Pre-grated mozzarella can also exhibit visible mold as well as a sour or yeasty smell . Brined varieties may have a musty , sour , or smelly-foot odor or an excessively cloudy brine . If you see visible mold on a drier variety , you can just cut it off and use the remaining cheese as normal as long as it does n't smell . If you plan on cooking or melting the cheese , it would likely be safe to eat , but may not taste normal . Moist cheeses like mozzarella can harbor Listeria , E coli , brucella , and salmonella so if you are in doubt and not interested in a bout of food poisoning , it 's best just to throw it out . To keep brined varieties fresh longer keep it refrigerated and replace the brine daily , the replacement brine should taste salty like the ocean . Even so , it should really be eaten within 2-3 days .
The milk sugars will add a sweetness to the dish . Also , after the fish comes out , the milk can be reduced/thickened to make a bechemel sauce .
Trying to get to the bottom of the issue , I decided to take a few pictures of a few different types of salt . The pictures shown below were taken by me and are all proportional ( the camera was the same distance away from each type of salt , so you are getting an accurate size comparison ) . The picture illustrates my suspicions , which is the difference is the surface area ( ignoring of course mineral content and different types of grinding salt ) . Standard table salt is a compact little cube , effective when it 's to be dissolved in a liquid , but not so much when it comes to direct contact with the taste buds . Place one cube on your tongue and you get 1/6th of the surface area in contact , meaning , a lot of salt without much saltiness . Sea salt , with a more rectangular shape is closer to 1/4th the surface area touching your tongue . Ground salt is more like shards of glass , so nearly half of the exposed area could be in contact making things taste that much more salty . Also with a much finer texture , you are left with many more particles in a wider area , meaning , a saltier taste with less salt . It 's a good way of finishing a dish when the salt is going to be lightly dusted on top or mixed with an oil where it will not dissolve at all . When you are dissolving it in a liquid , it really makes little difference which type you use . When it comes down to it , it 's all about how picky you want to be with it .
According to Kenji Alt 's experiements ( admittedly with beef ) , the major effect of the bone is insulation , which matters in a high-heat cooking environment , but not in sous-vide . See : <URL> For sous-vide cooking , the bone adds little value , other than appearance . It may also make it harder to put the product in your bag and seal it without a puncture . Still , there should be no harm in leaving it on if you choose to . In his ultimate <URL> , Kenji Alt does leave the bone on for the sous-vide process .
They 're something leaf-like . If you look closely , you 'll find that they are n't just markings , they can be pulled away from the stem . There does n't seem to be a lot of agreement about the best name ; you 'll see " scales " and " leaves " in plenty of informal contexts , and " bracts " in some ( but not all ) more formal contexts . On Food and Cooking says they 're bracts , and actually mentions why they might be there : The stalk does n't support ordinary leaves ; the small projections from the stems are leaf-like bracts that shield immature clusters of feathery photosynthetic branches . That cluster inside them is what makes them <URL> : In botany , a bract is a modified or specialized leaf , especially one associated with a reproductive structure such as a flower , inflorescence axis , or cone scale . <URL> . That 's a bit vague about where it actually is on the plant , but there 's an image later in the article making it clear what they 're referring to : <URL> Oddly , <URL> goes into a bit more detail : In asparagus ( Asparagus officinalis ; Asparagaceae ) , the scales found on the asparagus spears are the true leaves . If the thick , fleshy asparagus spears continue to grow , flat , green , leaflike structures called cladodes develop in the axils of the scale leaves . That does match the definition of bract . Asparagus is only tender enough to eat when pretty young , though , so perhaps when you eat it those cladodes have n't developed yet . That 's still the purpose of the scales , though . In any case , it sounds like " scale " vs " bract " may just be a difference in precision and perspective .
Adding oil or butter makes scrambled eggs more creamy by giving the egg protein something to hold onto and not curl as tight . The ideal formula for scrambled eggs is one extra yolk for every 4 eggs plus a little fat . I did n't like scrambled eggs until I tried this formula and it 's awesome . Credit goes to either Jack Bishop ( Cooks Illustrated ) and/or Nathan Myhrvold ( Modernist Cuisine ) unfortunately I ca n't remember which of the two clever gents I heard it from .
There are three major things that will effect the " natural " shelf life of the compote , in that they could extend it considerably past the normal shelf life of the ingredients individually : How sweet is it ? If it is sufficiently sugary , to the level of a jam or jelly , the sugar in the compote will act as a preservative . This is because any bacteria or mold that try to colonize the product will be dessicated , as water exits their cells into the sugar medium via osmosis . The problem here is that sugar is hydrophylic , and will easily attract water from the environment when the jar is opened , or when a wet spoon is put into it . If the surface becomes diluted with water , and thus the sugar is less concentrated , mold can get a foothold . So this kind of product is best stored in the refrigerator once opened . How acid is it ? Very , very acidic foods are less hospitable to most pathogens . How salty is it ? This one does n't usually apply to compote recipes , but high enough salt levels also make foods inhospitable to most pathogens , again due to the dessication of their cells via osmotic pressure . The specific recipe you linked to -- at least the compote portion itself , excluding the vinegar syrup and the rest of the recipe -- appears to have none of the characteristics that lead to a long shelf life . It should be held no longer than its most vulnerable ingredient , which would be the weak sugar syrup , so it is probably good for several days to a week in the refrigerator . Now , in general , things named compotes tend to be far sweeter , and far more acidic than the recipe you have linked to . In these cases , as ElindilTheTall points out , a very , very sweet recipe ( jelly-like or jam-like sweetness ) will last for many weeks in the refrigerator , and a couple of weeks at least at normal room temperature . Finally , many compotes are amenable to home canning , if they are sufficiently acidic . Canning has risks , especially for botulism , so you should only use recipes and methods from a very reputable source when doing canning , to ensure that the product is sufficiently acidic to be safe for the canning method used . Follow all of the techniques and prescriptions in the methods , as well , but I wo n't turn this into an essay on canning , which is not my area of expertise . For those compotes that are properly canned , you should get an indefinite shelf life prior to opening , as long as the seal on the canning jar remains intact .
The baking powder undergoes a chemical reaction which produces small gas bubbles in the batter . The bubbles break up the batter coating ( sort of like the geometry inside a sponge ) so you wind up with a mass of little holes each surrounded by a thin layer of bready material , and it all fries up airy , light and crispy ; instead of one thick , dense , hard shell of cooked paste around your cauliflower bits .
As far as I know , Korean and Japanese tofu are effectively identical in taste and preparation : my Japanese wife , who is generally quite particular about her ingredients , happily buys Korean brands from a Korean grocery for her Japanese cooking . If you 're dead set on making your own , in both countries the key ingredient for curdling is nigari ( Japanese ) aka 간수 gansu ( Korean ) , basically <URL> . Epsom salts are magnesium sulfate , so close but not the same thing ; lemon juice is out of the question ( for one thing , neither countries had lemons until recently ! ) . When experimenting , bear in mind that both countries use several different styles of tofu . " Standard " tofu/dubu is momen-dofu in Japan , but Korean soft tofu ( sundubu ) is even softer than Japanese kinugoshi-tofu and more akin to a rare Japanese type called oboro-tofu .
It is to cool it down without dilluting it - ice cubes would melt . And yes , you could simply cool the entire bottle , but it would n't look that fancy . Note that some purists would wrinkle their noses and insist that whisky1 is best enjoyed at room temperature and perhaps with a small dash of spring water . 1 And I 'm soooo not going into a whisky vs. whiskey debate here .
In Rome I was informed that I was eating a croissant with honey on top ( after informing my host that I had a honey allergy ) . It had the sweetness that I suspect you 're experiencing . To help you determine if we were trying the same thing : the croissant I had was shiny and slightly sticky on top , and it seemed more like it was brushed on top rather than drizzled . That would support @Carmi 's answer that it was brushed on with the egg . It was definitely honey , though , not sugar syrup .
For my 2 cents , I 've never ever used a parchment lid in recipes that call for it . I think Joe 's explanation of the purported purpose is right , but I just ca n't see it making a whole lot of difference , and I 've never noticed any moisture problems in the dishes I 've made this way . I 'd love to hear from someone who says they can really see a difference having made a dish both ways .
Peanut butter cookies do n't spread as they cook , so you have to flatten them before hand . This ensures that the middle will cook through before the outside burns . As for the pattern created , it actually creates slightly more surface area , so you 'll get more browning at the extra edges that you create . Think of it like a meringue , or the top of a shepherd 's pie -- if it 's too smooth , you wo n't get the little bits of browned crispy bits that you 'd get if you rough up the surface .
The primary purpose is for flavor . If it 's the expense of a large bottle for a few tablespoons here and there you should be able to buy the mini bottles ( as are served on airplanes ) from a local liquor store . If you do n't want to use or have it around due to issues with alcohol then look for other items that have as similar flavor to substitute . Sherry has a sweet nutty flavor to it and apple juice can often work suitably well . Keep in mind you 'll probably not find an exact flavor match but it can be close . A small amount of orange extract could be used in place of grand marnier . Depending on the item , you might also try flavored syrups that are used for coffee drinks . Remember that these have a lot of sugar in them so you 'll need to compensate by cutting back on sugar elsewhere in the recipe and obviously do n't use them where the sweet flavor would n't be welcome .
A lot of bacteria grows in the range of 40-100 ° F ( 4-38 ° C ) ( i.e. room temperature ) . It 's definitely not recommended to defrost meat at room temperature . In fact , you are not supposed to leave meat at room temperature for more than an hour . However , defrosting in the refrigerator can take a long time and require you to plan at least one day ahead of time . I 'm not so good at this , which leads to a safe and fast solution : Defrost meat in a waterproof ziploc bag in cold water . Change the water every 30 minutes until defrosted . The water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the defrosting is quite fast and the water is cold so there 's minimal safety risk . From the <URL> : Uh , oh ! You 're home and forgot to defrost something for dinner . You grab a package of meat or chicken and use hot water to thaw it fast . But is this safe ? What if you remembered to take food out of the freezer , but forgot and left the package on the counter all day while you were at work ? Neither of these situations are safe , and these methods of thawing lead to foodborne illness . Food must be kept at a safe temperature during " the big thaw . " Foods are safe indefinitely while frozen . However , as soon as food begins to defrost and become warmer than 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) , any bacteria that may have been present before freezing can begin to multiply . Foods should never be thawed or even stored on the counter , or defrosted in hot water . Food left above 40 ° F ( unrefrigerated ) is not at a safe temperature . Even though the center of the package may still be frozen as it thaws on the counter , the outer layer of the food is in the " Danger Zone , " between 40 and 140 ° F ( 4 ° C and 60 ° C ) -- at temperatures where bacteria multiply rapidly . When defrosting frozen foods , it 's best to plan ahead and thaw food in the refrigerator where food will remain at a safe , constant temperature -- 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . There are three safe ways to defrost food : in the refrigerator , in cold water , and in the microwave . Refrigerator Thawing Planning ahead is the key to this method because of the lengthy time involved . A large frozen item like a turkey requires at least a day ( 24 hours ) for every 5 pounds of weight . Even small amounts of frozen food -- such as a pound of ground meat or boneless chicken breasts -- require a full day to thaw . When thawing foods in the refrigerator , there are several variables to take into account . Some areas of an appliance may keep the food colder than other areas . Food placed in the coldest part will require longer defrosting time . Food takes longer to thaw in a refrigerator set at 35 ° F ( 2 ° C ) than one set at 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) . After thawing in the refrigerator , ground meat and poultry should remain useable for an additional day or two before cooking ; red meat , 3 to 5 days . Foods defrosted in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking , although there may be some loss of quality . Cold Water Thawing This method is faster than refrigerator thawing but requires more attention . The food must be in a leak-proof package or plastic bag . If the bag leaks , bacteria from the air or surrounding environment could be introduced into the food . Also , meat tissue can also absorb water like a sponge , resulting in a watery product . The bag should be submerged in cold tap water , changing the water every 30 minutes so it continues to thaw . Small packages of meat or poultry -- about a pound -- may defrost in an hour or less . A 3 - to 4-pound package may take 2 to 3 hours . For whole turkeys , estimate about 30 minutes per pound . If thawed completely , the food must be cooked immediately . Foods thawed by the cold water method should be cooked before refreezing .
Unfortunately , the function depends on the manufacturer . While turning off a set of elements may be common , another option is that the setting may just increase the cook time . Bagels are thicker and have more mass than sliced bread , so a longer toast time is necessary to have a similar level of toasting . In particular there are Cuisinart toasters where the bagel button only lengthens the time of the toasting and does not change the pattern . From <URL> Bagel button The bagel feature adds extra time to the toasting cycle to allow for thicker breads . You may also use the bagel button for English muffins and other thick breads .
What you are looking for is called wholemeal flour . Here 's a quick US to UK baking translation guide . US on the left , UK on the right : All-purpose flour = plain flour bread flour = strong flour ( both have extra gluten ) whole wheat flour = wholemeal flour 1 stick of butter is 113g ( get a scale , trust me ) 1 large egg = 1 medium egg
Sugar has a few effects in bread : It helps make it soft and tender by absorbing some of the water and slowing down the formation of gluten strands . It feeds the yeast , resulting in a faster rise . Via caramelisation , it aids in the browning of the crust . It acts as a preservative , keeping the bread fresher for longer ( though 1tbsp probably does n't make a lot of difference ) . It does have some effect on the flavour .
end question
start question
Is it possible to determine if fish caught from fishing is safe to make into sashimi or sushi ?
The biggest concern with fish caught in the wild is the presence of parasites . You 'll have to look up which species of parasite are present in the species of fish that you wish to use , and treat it accordingly . Tapeworm is common in salmon , and several other varieties of fish have various parasites capable of infecting a human host . Most sites I 've seen suggest that you need to freeze the fish at -4 degrees Fahrenheit ( -20 Celcius ) or colder for 7 days or -31 Fahrenheit ( -35 Celcius ) for 15 hours to guarantee any parasites are dead . Many home freezers may have difficulty keeping temperatures this low . Also the freezing process , if done in a home freezer , has a good chance of ruining the taste and the texture of the meat . You may want to look into flash freezing methods to avoid this . Supposedly there are certain species of fish that do not have any parasites , or at least no parasites capable of infecting humans . You will want to do your own research on this to be certain . Beyond parasites bacteria are the other biggest concern . Make sure you put the fish into a cooler immediately , and freeze it as soon as you return home . Sources : <URL> <URL>
Official : No definitive answer , there are different governing bodies and plastic wraps ( cling films ) in the US/Europe . There are also different plastic wraps for different purposes , microwave safe , safe for use with fatty foods , so on . Whether its safe or not will depend on the product used and most likely the time boiled for . The UKs Food Standard Agency <URL> - " Do not use cling films where they may melt into the food , such as in conventional ovens or with pots and pans on cooker hobs " . The cling film industry are understandably much more <URL> . Practical : I 've poached eggs using cling film for ages and I 'm still here . Read the plastic wrap boxes for warnings and choose the plastic wrap that 's most suited . Poach an egg as described <URL> ( as of 2016 , link requires registration to read ) and check if the wrap comes away cleanly , If so you 're good . I 'd revisit this advice if your recipe called for cooking like this for longer than 5-10 minutes , there are likely more suitable products/recipes for extensive boil-in-the-bag manoeuvres .
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
After cooking 90 % of the way , pat fries dry on paper towels and lightly brush with a mix of ingredients -- tomato paste , honey , vinegar , garlic/onion powder , and salt . Finish in the oven on very high heat ( 450-500 ) until the outsides begin to brown . If you can only use tomatoes and not paste , reduce the above ingredients in a saucepan , substituting fresh tomatoes for tomato paste . Reduce to about 1/3 volume , so that it 's closer to a sauce/glaze , and use that as a coating instead .
Even if it is possible , it is a very , very bad idea as you do n't know what cultures or pathogens are in the already spoiled milk . Fermented dairy products should only be made from fresh milk in good condition -- and in most cases , that milk should be pasteurized while fresh absolutely as soon as possible from the source cows .
There is one very different issue to be kept in mind - water in a microwave can overheat and " explode " once it is disturbed . Another poster had exactly this problem a short while ago : <URL> So follow the usual precautions , e.g. putting a wooden toothpick or a small , very clean stone ( chemists have them in their labs ) in your vessel . In a pinch , a spoon will do , but not all microwaves handle metal objects well . If you are worried that heating your water in a microwave might not be sufficient to kill all " nasties " , remember that killing bacteria is a function of time and temperature , so you might feel safer if you not only bring your water to a boil , but continue boiling it for another minute or so . I would assume that this is mostly for your psychological benefit , but it certainly wo n't hurt . The temperature reached is identical for different heating devices as physics dictates the boiling point of water and it ca n't exceed that as long as it 's liquid .
In such a case , for any food item , ask yourself a question : In a 19th century household , would it have been kept in the cellar , or eaten immediately ? For bacon , it is common knowledge ( or at least I think everybody knows it ) that it was kept in a cellar for long time . So this is definitely not a food which perishes too quickly . You can eat it raw . ( In fact , I often do when I need a quick sandwich ) . It can be a bit tough to tear apart with your teeth , so pre-cut it . The reason for this is that bacon is cured meat . There are two reasons not to eat raw meat : taste and food safety . Taste is individual , some people are OK with the taste and eat raw meat as long as they can find a source of meat fresh enough ( think sashimi , carpaccio , steak tartare ) . Food safety is not a problem with bacon . The process of turning pork to bacon includes salt and smoke . Both of these kill bacteria , create an environment which is not hospitable to new colonization ( dry , salty ) , and give the meat a new flavor which is better than the raw meat . If you are now asking yourself why we are bothering with the fridge for bacon and other ex - " cellar foods " at all , there is still a reason . First , most of us do n't have a convenient cellar at 12 ° - 15 ° C , and not only is the bacon 's life shortened if kept at usual kitchen temperatures , it also does n't taste too good . It is just greasy . Second , you seldom get dry bacon at the supermarket ; even if the curing process does n't include brining , bacon is often aged much less than in old times , and then packed in vacuum , so it does n't get really dry on the outside . So bacteria could very well start growing on it outside of the freezer . Inside the freezer , it keeps much longer than raw meat , and is certainly OK for consumption without frying . I guess that the popularity of fried bacon is mainly due to taste reasons .
If you whisk egg whites to much they will definitely separate . Basically you are over tightening their stretchy proteins which squeeze out all the water . You are left with useless protein fluff floating on water . The flavor and odor will not change , however . That would be a sign off spoiling and unrelated to the whisking .
Fondant must be kneaded like dough , until it 's soft and smooth , before you roll it out . If you roll it out straight from the pack it will be too cold and stiff .
Yes you can mature cheeses , most hard cheeses can be matured either in the refridgerator or elsewhere . Remove from the plastic packaging , the cheese will need to breathe , but not dry out - a cardboard box , paper towels , parchment paper would work . Just be careful on the amount of moisture &amp; bacteria/mold growth . You 'll find a lot more helpful information if you search on " maturing cheeses " or " maturing cheeses at home " .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
i STRONGLY recommend against it . i can speak from experience that the sudden change in temperature can cause glass baking dishes ( particularly when they go from as high of a heat required by no-knead bread to a cool room temp ) to shatter and explode ! i had a pyrex dish go supernova on me once , sending hot flying glass shards all over the kitchen . how i did n't get hit i 'll never know , but it melted holes in our floor and left scorch marks ! more information from Consumer Reports : <URL> you can pick up some heavy pots suitable for no-knead break baking at thrift stores and garage sales for a song . if you can find a cast-iron dutch oven , even better ! i urge you to dig around a bit . the results are really worth it .
The reason popcorn can be popped is that they have a water-impermeable hull , which contains the pressure of the steam created inside the kernel as it is heated , until it passes a critical point . When that happens , the steam explodes out , breaking the hull , and creating the popcorn . Some of the other puffed products are more complex , as the link you have already found shows . Potatoes do not have a water impermeable skin , and so can not be puffed in the same manner as popcorn . There is a dish -- sometimes called puffed potatoes -- where the steam inside fried potato pieces is used to puff them up , but it will not be similar in texture to puffed grain . See <URL> , for example . They will be more akin to fluffy french fries ( or chips , as they say in Britain ) . There is another dish called puffed potatoes , which are essentially a choux paste with potatoes that are baked or deep fried . They are a great dish , but are a different type of thing entirely . See <URL> from the great Jacques Pepin .
If it 's refrigerated , it 'll last for at least a week , as long as you did n't pre-dairy it . Unrefrigerated , I would n't trust it for more than a day . Coffee is a crappy growth medium and it should start out the next best thing to sterile , but , even covered , its going to start to get moldy . Obviously if you add dairy , then you 're dealing with that dairy shelf-life , and that is n't very long at all .
The biggest concern with fish caught in the wild is the presence of parasites . You 'll have to look up which species of parasite are present in the species of fish that you wish to use , and treat it accordingly . Tapeworm is common in salmon , and several other varieties of fish have various parasites capable of infecting a human host . Most sites I 've seen suggest that you need to freeze the fish at -4 degrees Fahrenheit ( -20 Celcius ) or colder for 7 days or -31 Fahrenheit ( -35 Celcius ) for 15 hours to guarantee any parasites are dead . Many home freezers may have difficulty keeping temperatures this low . Also the freezing process , if done in a home freezer , has a good chance of ruining the taste and the texture of the meat . You may want to look into flash freezing methods to avoid this . Supposedly there are certain species of fish that do not have any parasites , or at least no parasites capable of infecting humans . You will want to do your own research on this to be certain . Beyond parasites bacteria are the other biggest concern . Make sure you put the fish into a cooler immediately , and freeze it as soon as you return home . Sources : <URL> <URL>
You have several options for the crust . It is possible to purchase mixes that will get you started . There are also several recipes available . A good resource for all your gluten-free baking is <URL> , and you can find a recipe there . Another great option is former pastry chef <URL> at Tartlette . <URL> has compiled a list of gluten-free baking recipes which may also provide you good jumping off points . You can make a dairy free crust by replacing butter with lard or vegetable shortening . Margarine is likely not be dairy free . Lard will provide a texture and taste that is better than an all shortening crust , but shortening is easier to find in stores . If the dairy free requirement is a requirement to avoid casein , you will have to do some experimentation on your own to find an appropriate egg replacement , as gluten free crusts appear to require eggs to hold together . Options for egg replacers can be found <URL> and <URL> . Once you have assembled a crust recipe from these tips , if you have questions about it or are struggling you can ask a follow-on question here about how to improve the crust and the community can provide specific help on a provided recipe . In general it appears that the gluten free crusts available are actually similar to work with versus a regular pie crust , something that is not always the case in gluten free baking . As usual you want to do everything cold and refrigerate your dough over night . Pie dough of all forms is easiest to roll when you place it between two floured sheets of parchment paper . Remove the top piece of parchment paper , flip the bottom piece with crust on it ( hold it all together , because your crust should n't be sticking ) into the pie plate or onto your pie , and remove the top piece . Apple pie is sometimes thickened with flour , and obviously you do not want to do this when cooking gluten-free . The absolute best pie thickener is actually not flour , so you are set here . In taste tests the editors of Cooks Illustrated determined that instant tapioca , a gluten-free product , is the best pie thickener . Make sure , however , not to use more than 2 tablespoons or your pie may be gummy . Since apple slices contain pectin , you should n't need more than 2 tablespoons for your pie to set up . Sugar , apples , and the usual apple pie spices ( if you choose to spice your pie - with good apples you can actually make an amazing pie with simply sugar , instant tapioca , and apples ) should all be gluten free and dairy free , with the usual caveat that in gluten-free cooking and baking you want to make sure that there has been no gluten added to anything by carefully reading labels .
In a pop over-type batter , the eggs provide a few functions : Egg whites : protein for structure . Since the popover/yorkshire pudding is leavened by the protein matrix generated by the ingredients setting and capturing the steam that the wet batter is pushing out , you 're going to need something to replace the protein here . The gluten from the wheat flour is n't going to fully provide the structural integrity you need . Egg whites : Water . Egg whites are about 92 % water by weight . This helps make your dough liquid enough to produce the steam needed for the leavening . Egg yolks : fats for weakening the dough . The fats in the yolks help keep the dough springy and soft as well as provides a nice richness to the flavor . Egg yolks : emulsifiers . The lecithin in the yolk helps to bind the water phase of the batter with the fat phase of the batter so that they do n't separate . So , my suggestion would be to up the liquid in the recipe by a few tablespoons , add a little bit more fat , some powdered lecithin ( or other emulsifying agents -- you can get vegan lecithin made from mustard ) , and some soy protein powder . You might have to play with the combination of these ingredients , but by replicating and replacing the items the egg provides , you 'll be much better suited to creating the popover . Although , you 're not making yorkshire pudding FYI -- you 're making a popover . Yorkshire pudding is a popover created by using the rendered fat from a roast . A popover is the same type of bread , but made without using animal fat .
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
In the star trek world you have plenty of beings with body temperatures higher or lower than humans , so if you had a being with a body temp of 79C then ethanol would work out perfectly ! However , with humans the liquid which would fit the bill of vaporizing just below body temperature would be Pentane , which not only smells bad but is also toxic . The science behind it is wrong anyway , you 'd want a liquid with a much lower vaporization point than body temperature so it would boil off quickly . If you pick a liquid that boils just below body temperature it would take some time to vaporize and you would n't have the same effect . All is not completely lost , you can still have some cool effects with liquids that are safe for consumption . What you have to remember is that the closer a liquid gets to its boiling point the more it evaporates , and any volatiles in it will tend to remained suspended in the vapor and be detectable by the nose . This is the effect you get when you sniff brandy or cognac that has been brought up to body temperature . You can savor it by holding it on the tongue for a few seconds and letting the vapors fill your nasal cavity . So all you need is some strong ( at least 80 proof ) and flavored ( or more accurately scented ) alcohol , and the right glasses . Brandy snifters would work best as they are designed to capture the vapors so they can be inhaled . You could then heat the liquid to just above human body temperature and then serve . Keep the quantities served down unless you want some very drunk guests !
end question
start question
How to prevent food colouring changing the taste of food ?
If you use the same Dr. Oetker colouring that I have used in the past , which is advertised as a ' gel ' colouring , then you have to use a lot to get a good intense colour . You may have better results ( colour and taste-wise ) getting proper concentrated gel food colourings , like those made by <URL> . You need to use much less than cheaper brands so you do n't run the risk of flavouring the food , and you can even use them in meringues without ruining the structure .
What you describe sounds like a Jamaican Patty . From <URL> : A Jamaican patty or pattie is a pastry that contains various fillings and spices baked inside a flaky shell . Technically , it is a beef filled turnover . As its name suggests , it is commonly found in Jamaica , and is also eaten in other areas of Costa Rica , especially on the Caribbean coast . It is traditionally filled with ground beef , however , fillings now include chicken , vegetables , shrimp , lobster , soy and cheese . <URL> <URL> <URL> They are quite tasty !
What about tofu ? It can be " jerkyfied " pretty easily . For example : <URL>
Basically everything at all normal is safe . There is a mushroom that gets toxic if combined with alcohol , but alcohol itself is n't 100 % safe and if you 're gathering wild mushrooms you need to be safety conscious , so it 's not really something you could run into by accident or with storebought ingredients . Relevant paragraph from <URL> Consuming Coprinopsis atramentaria within a few hours of alcohol results in a " disulfiram syndrome " . This interaction has only been known since the early part of the twentieth century . Symptoms include facial reddening , nausea , vomiting , malaise , agitation , palpitations and tingling in limbs , and arise five to ten minutes after consumption of alcohol . If no more alcohol is consumed , they will generally subside over two or three hours . Symptom severity is proportional to the amount of alcohol consumed , becoming evident when blood alcohol concentration reaches 5 mg/dL , and prominent at concentrations of 50 -- 100 mg/dL . Disulfiram has , however , been known to cause myocardial infarction ( heart attack ) . The symptoms can occur if even a small amount of alcohol is consumed up to three days after eating the mushrooms , although they are milder as more time passes . Rarely , a cardiac arrhythmia , such as atrial fibrillation on top of supraventricular tachycardia , may develop .
I have only seen it used in dahl dishes , presumably because of it 's claimed digestive properties . Asafoetida is incredibly pungent ; anything more than a pinch seems too much and unpleasant . I think of it as a flavour-enhancer , a natural , Indian MSG rather than a spice in the normal sense . It makes your mouth water quite intensely and seems to stimulate the savory tatse buds ( umami ) . This is lovely when done subtley and kept in the background . Therefore , I suspect you could add small pinches to all kinds of savoury food .
Aromatics are at least half of taste . Its like when you go to a restaurant and have to wash your clothes when you get home because they smell just like what you ate . Potatoes do n't have any particular dominating flavor , they generally inherit whatever flavor they are exposed to ; chicken is much the same way . Tuna on the other hand has a very pungent aroma . I would n't be surprised to see the fries take on the tuna aroma and " taste " a little fishy . Try temporarily covering your fries while you cook other things . That should help .
Was the deep fryer below anything ? Cabinet , Vent Hood ? Those areas could be probably be cleaned to help . This happens to me in my house when I fry up bacon . The only solution is fresh air and ventilation . I open a couple of windows , get a nice cross-breeze and it should dissipate over a couple of hours .
Any halfway competent chef should indeed be tasting . The only way to know whether you 're putting up good food is to check it yourself - and you 'd better be consistent if you want to continue getting paid for it . That 's not to say that all chefs do , nor that there 's any one standard for how frequently to taste or what method should be used . It 's pretty obvious that using your hands to taste or double-dipping is frowned on ... but shortcuts do happen when it 's the middle of the rush and you have 30 things to be doing at once . The best practice I 've personally seen in a commercial kitchen was to have a large set of spoons at each station , kept with the " business end " submerged in hot water with a mild sanitizer solution . Each chef also carried a few clean towels which they changed out copiously throughout the evening ( these have a million uses , from wiping hands dry to cleaning plate rims to handling hot pan handles ) . When tasting , we 'd grab a spoon , tap off excess water , wipe with a clean towel if necessary , take a small taste , and discard . This got to be as much of a habit as washing your hands after handling raw meat or wiping down your cutting board . The used spoons would be collected and washed regularly along with used pans and so on , then returned to the line . With a system like this there 's minimal risk for contamination and relatively little waste , except for frequent washing . At home , you can play things a bit looser , unless you like washing all of your spoons every night . Double-dipping is n't a big concern unless you 're ill , in which case you should n't really be cooking for people . You 're probably introducing your friends and family to just as much contamination in the form of dust and such simply by having them in your home . EDIT : I agree with Jefromi 's point in comments , so I want to emphasize this further . Safety aside , I strongly believe that tasting is necessary to make you a better cook . It teaches you how to make corrections on the fly and balance flavors , rather than simply following a recipe . As a matter of fact , even if you 're following a recipe , you will need to account for variation in things like produce . Fruits vary in their flavor depending on how ripe they are , where they were grown , whether it was a good season ... The vegetables that I get at my local market may be a slightly different variety from yours ... Meats vary widely depending on how the animal is fed and raised , even if you 're using the same cuts . Even when using packaged ingredients , you ca n't guarantee complete consistency unless you use the exact brand as written in a recipe . ( And I dare say that if your recipes uses only packaged ingredients , you can do much better . ) Recipes can not account for this sort of variation in anything but the broadest strokes . It 's up to you to balance all of this , plus the preferences of yourself and your guests . If you 're only tasting when you 've finished cooking , it 's probably too late to correct any problems . Like any skill , cooking ability is improved by practice and feedback . Tasting as you go provides you with immediate feedback on how the dish tastes and what it needs , rather than just at the very end when you sit down to eat . Learning how flavors interact , how much seasoning is enough , and so on are fundamentals . They 're what help you get creative , go beyond cooking someone else 's dishes , and start coming up with your own . So : yes , you should taste , and you should taste often . There are many ways to deal with safety concerns , but there is no other way to get better at fixing your mistakes before they hit the table .
@Adam A is close -- it 's not an issue of surface area on potency , it 's an issue of damage to the garlic . The ' strong ' taste of garlic comes from a reaction as chemicals are released so they can mix ( alliin and alliinase ) When you cook the garlic whole ( as you would for roasted garlic ) , you will never get this reaction , as you 'll break down the chemicals . Also , the chemicals break down over long cooking , so even if you add a head of crushed garlic at the beginning of a batch of slow-cooked tomato sauce ( 4 + hrs ) , it 's not going to have as strong a garlic flavor as adding a clove or two at the end . One other way that the garlic prep can affect the taste is when you 're sauteing , stir frying or other cooking over high heat -- larger bits can be cooked longer before they burn ... and burned garlic is bitter , acrid and will ruin any dish . ( if you burn garlic , stop immediately , trash everything , clean the pan , and start again -- there is no way to save it that I know )
Yes it is completely safe . Microwaves do not linger in food . The microwaves stop as soon as your microwave stops . A microwave is just an electromagnetic wave similar to a radio wave , but at a higher frequency . It works by exciting molecules , particularly water , in the food and giving those molecules some of its energy as heat . Microwaves do not alter the structure or composition of molecules or atoms directly , which is what happens with <URL> ( gamma rays , x-rays , and UV-rays ) . You could cook your food with gamma rays , but you would ionize many of the particles making them radioactive .
There are a variety of factors at work here : Freezing foods " improperly " ( i.e. not flash-frozen , not vacuum-sealed ) causes ice crystals to form within the food , damaging the molecular structures . This is what causes many frozen leftovers to become " mushy " or change in texture . Again due to the formation of ice and the movement of water when the food is reheated , tiny particles such as spices can be lost in steam and/or runoff water . Extreme temperatures ( both hot and cold ) can denature enzymes in the food , changing their flavor , texture , etc. . As food sits , flavors in the food may blend together in different ways , causing the food to have less distinct flavors . If your freezer is n't especially clean and your food not well-sealed , your food may be absorbing other odors which are again " masking " the original flavor of your food . Hope that gives you some ideas .
There are four methods for thawing frozen foods which are recognized as safe : In a refrigerator In the microwave Under cool running water As part of the cooking process These four methods all meet the criteria that they minimize the amount of time the food spends in the danger zone ( 40-140 F , 4-60 C ) where bacteria can grow . The pros and cons of the following often-recommended methods are also reviewed : Leaving food on the counter overnight Thawing in a bowl ( or sink ) of water On a metal pan or with a " miracle thaw " device In the refrigerator Thawing food in the refrigerator is slow ; it can take a day to thaw several pounds ( a kilogram or two ) , and even more time for larger foods like a whole frozen turkey . The advantage is that the refrigerator is at a safe temperature , and bacterial growth is already inhibited , so there is little risk . This is probably the preferred method for many foods , if you have the time . In the microwave Thawing in the microwave is fast , but it has several disadvantages : It requires a lot of attention , turning or rotating the food to get even coverage from the microwaves ; for items like ground beef , you might even need to scrape off the thawed portions and continue defrosting the frozen portion . It is easy to accidently go to far and start cooking the food , especially if it has an odd shape or small pointier parts sticking out ( like wings on a chicken ) . For this reason , microwave thawing is best done only for foods like soup or stew , where you can stir them and if one part boils a small amount while another part is frozen , no harm is done . Under cool running water This one is most surprising , but it is true : the fastest way to thaw food safely is under cool running water ( at or below 70 F / 21 C ) , like the cold water from your tap . The reason is that that water has an extremely high capacity for carrying heat , and the forced convection from running water ensures that it transfers heat from the food item as rapidly as possible . In the Good Eats episode <URL> , Alton Brown thawed several frozen ice duck sculptures by various methods . The one under cool running water was almost completely melted , even when the one in the oven at 200 F was still fairly recognizably bird shaped . It is important that the water be running , to ensure strong convection . You can do this by setting the food in the sink under a very small stream of water . If the food should not get wet , you can put it in a zip-type bag or similar to keep it dry . Try to remove as much air as possible , to get the best contact between the water and the food ( through the bag ) . This is the best method for forced , rapid thawing ( at least when microwaving is not appropriate or inconvenient ) , but it is probably less convenient that the refrigerator method . You also have to monitor the food , and remove it when it is thawed , or it will come to the ambient temperature of the water , which is probably in the danger zone . As part of the cooking process Some foods can be cooked starting from the frozen state , thawing and then cooking in one operation . Among the ones most suitable for this are are smaller or thinner items , such as : Cookie dough lumps Hamburgers Chicken parts Pizza Stew meat Frozen , chopped vegetables Frozen stock ( at least in smaller quantities ) Bad idea : on the Counter overnight This is a bad idea , especially for meats and other highly perishable items . You have no control over the temperature the surface of the food will reach , and it may begin to spoil at the surface before the center is thawed . Bad idea : In a bowl ( or sink ) of cold water Again , a bad idea . Without the convection , the thawing speed is reduced . There is also no source of newer , cooler water , so the temperature of the water itself will rise . Some parts of the food may reach dangerous temperatures before it is fully thawed . Also , if you do n't check the food frequently , the temperature can get into dangerous territories , facilitating spoilage . Risky : On a cast iron , stainless steel or other metal pan , or a " miracle thaw " device This method is most often used with thin foods like steaks or frozen hamburgers . Physics are with you , as the specific heat capacity and conductivity of the metal are very high ( higher even than water ) . The large surface area of the metal acts like a radiator or heat sink in reverse , conducting heat away from the food more rapidly than air alone would . This method is not approved by health codes for commercial use , and carries some risks . You need to monitor the food closely , and cook it or move it into the refrigerator as soon as it is thawed . Failure to do so will allow the food to spoil , and the conductivity of your metal will become your enemy , more quickly bringing the food to ambient temperature . While this method is not officially sanctioned , you may choose to assess its risks for yourself . See also : <URL> <URL>
More head = less carbonation , which will change the mouth-feel of the drink , albeit largely imperceptibly for most people ( myself included ) . Less carbonation will also change the actual perception of flavour ; it will taste sweeter , mostly .
Assuming you are n't very unlucky and happen to download a series of bad recipes I think it 's one of a few things . It 's possible you could be undercooking your goods . Fully cooked baked goods should not taste like flour . It 's also possible that you could be mixing insufficiently . If this were the case though you 'd likely have some cookies that were n't floury . The most likely culprit though is packed flour . If you are using volume measurements ( most likely given the source ) for flour , it 's quite possible to use nearly twice as much flour as the recipe intends simply because your flour is packed down more than the author 's was . I recommend using either a food processor or a sifter to sift your flour adequately before measuring . Do n't undo your sifting by rapping your measuring cup on the counter either ! Simply scoop , scrape to level and dump it in the mixing bowl . See Also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I was able to track down the dish . It is called Lahuhe . There is a picture of it here : <URL> Thank you to everyone for trying to help me out .
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
The ratio of food to size of container will make a large difference as well as the the texture of the item being blended . This has been a problem for me with traditional blenders . I 've found that an immersion ( stick ) blender helps tremendously with this in two specific ways : First , with a stick blender , you are basically holding the blade and can move it around , preventing food from separating and sticking to the sides . Second , most immersion blenders come with small bowl accessories that in essence give you a " mini blender " . Since the bowl is smaller in size , food separating and sticking to the side is n't as much of an issue . Immersion blenders are pretty cheap -- you can get one for as little as $ 20 . I have the Braun model . It 's amazing but I think they stopped making it . The best one on the market now is the KitchenAid . I use mine for hummus , soups and pestos . It 's without a doubt one of the most useful tools in my kitchen .
Also does it modify or make the food more nutritious with solar cooker . Not more than any other kind of similar cooking by radiant heat , like baking . There is simply no mechanism by which that could happen . Let 's examine some claims I found from Google : from <URL> Solar cooking does n't use smoke that can contain carcinogens or microwaves that expose your food to potentially dangerous radio waves . An electric stove produces no smoke ( if you do n't burn the food ) , and natural gas produces very little smoke . Were there smoke emitted by the stove , the area around it would be covered in soot , and the flame would be yellow from the carbon ( the main component of soot and smoke ) heated to incandescence in the flame . Further , the biggest cancer risk from smoked foods is not the smoke , but the <URL> frequently used to cure them . If microwaves emit dangerous radio waves , the sun emits far more . That 's why it 's so bright , and so hot . I suppose you could be harmed by the microwave 's radio waves if you manage to turn it on without shutting the door . Then again , you can cook your hand in a solar cooker , too . Or a stove . Come to think of it , cooking involves potentially dangerous heat . Huh . Also : <URL> ( summary : no more than any other cooking ) Plus , when you cook in a solar appliance , the nutrients stay in the food and do n't leach out . That 's because you do n't use water in solar cooking . And , the temperatures in a solar oven are moderate -- around 325 F -- so nutrients are n't destroyed during cooking at a high temperature like on a grill or over an open flame . This is also true of many other methods of preparing foods : baking , grilling , microwaving , frying and , do n't involve water . 325 F is not an unusual temperature for baking , and most other methods can be performed gently , if desired . To summarize : there may be benefits of solar cooking ( a big one : it requires no fuel ) , but nutrition is not one of them . There 's no way sunlight can add more nutrition to food that was n't there to begin . Any nutritional benefits are not as much from solar cooking specifically as they are from not cooking by some less nutritional method . For example , any cooking method that is not boiling will not have the possibility of dissolving some of the food 's nutrition .
Yes . Make it again and do n't add horseradish . I 'm totally serious - no traditional hummus recipe in the known universe has horseradish in it . There is nothing you are going to be able to do to your existing batch to remove that flavor , other than diluting it , but I do n't think you 'd be able to dilute it enough to be worth the effort .
Working in restaurants similar things to this happened a lot . Our quick fix that usually did the trick was 50/50 vinegar and water and boil it off as mentioned above . Lemon juice or even orange should work instead of vinegar for a better scent . At a guess , the more acidy fluids help break down any splatter that may have gone into the vents . Hint : this is also great to do just before cleaning the microwave , even baked on splatter comes off easily after the steam .
end question
start question
How to cook a tender quail ?
Three potential methods or changes you can try : soak the quail in brine for 2-3 hours before searing . You can do this in a large zip-lock sack or in a covered bowl . Make sure to store the quail/brine combo in your refrigerator during the soaking . Let quail reach room temperature before cooking . Pan-searing the quail might dry out the smaller pieces , i.e. the bony wings or legs . Try your 20-minutes cooking in a very hot oven , making sure not to burn or sear the quail too much . Similar to cooking a turkey , cover the thinner pieces with foil so they dry out more slowly . Ultimate method : use a " Sous Vide " method - you basically seal the quail and your flavorful broth in a vacuum seal bag , making sure to get as much air out as possible before sealing . Then you slow-cook the bag + contents in a Sous Vide hot-water bath . Instead of buying an expensive/French Sous Vide cooker , just follow these steps for very similar results : <URL> Note : to get a good finish , after cooking the quail to tender in a Sous Vide bath , you can sear the quail a little bit with a cook 's blow-torch ( for good presentation ) or just pan sear it quickly in a hot pan .
Standard prep for beef tongue seems to be : scrub it well and rinse , then soak it in cold water for 2-3 hours . Heat water to a low simmer ( about 200F ) and cook slowly for at least an hour per pound . Preferably cook as long as you can ( 5-6 hours ) to get a more tender result . When meat is tender and cooked , remove meat and save the broth . Cool the tongue and peel off the outer skin . The broth may be reduced and added to vegetables and meat to create a richer , meatier taco . I also found a tongue taco ( how is that NOT slang for some sexual act ? ) <URL> . Personally , I 'm also a big fan of cold boiled beef tongue with horseradish sauce . You can go from the cooked tongue straight to that just by slicing it up . Now I really want to make tongue tacos .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
It 's not too much water that makes them soggy , it 's cooking them for too long in the water . Thin noodles are virtually done as soon as they break out of their dry , tablet shape . As soon as this happens , take a noodle out and test it . Remember that cooking will continue even after you drain the noodles . You should drain the noodles well in a colander . If you are planning on stir frying the noodles , you need to first wash the starch off them - run the cold water tap over them and circulate it through the noodles with your hand ( carefully , they might still be hot in the middle ) . They then need to be dried as much possible - spread them out on a board , pat with paper towel , and leave for ten minutes or so before stir frying ( preferably in an empty wok - cook the rest of the stir fry first , then empty it , cook the noodles , and re-add the meat etc. )
Alcohol does not make the meat tender . It even prevents the outside surface of the meat to fully absorb the flavours . Then again , most marinades do n't penetrate into the meat anyway . When it comes to Shashlik , I think what is working for your uncle , is the time the meat spends in the fridge getting aged ( they probably marinate for a day or more ) and the enzymes break down the meat . It is a myth that Alcohol or Acid make the meat tender . In fact , they have the opposite effect . Per food author <URL> : Alcohol does denature and dehydrate meat and fish tissue , and the stronger the alcohol , the stronger this effect . What you should do instead , is to cook off the alcohol from your marinade first . The ingredient that keeps the meat juicy is salt which most marinades have . The less acidic marinade ( beer versus wine ) the more tender the meat . However , some not so acidic wines end up flavouring the surface of the meat enough to provide a pleasant byte .
Supermarket ' stew beef ' is notoriously unreliable . Its often just scraps of beef that the butcher or market ca n't sell otherwise . My stews were hit and miss for years while I tried to tweak cooking time and such . But then one day I watched a movie on rouxbe.com ( paywall , sorry ) and they talked about not using ' stew beef ' - its often too lean and does n't have the ' stuff ' to produce tender , but juicy bits . They strongly recommended cutting up your own from a chuck ... and they were so , so , so right . In short , cutting up your own chuck is by far the better route - if you 're looking for ' stew beef ' .
Yes . What you can do is throw the potatoes in with the meat - anything above 85C will eventually cook the potatoes through . Then when you pull the meat out to rest , raise the oven temperature to say 190 - 200 C and possibly add a little fat . They wo n't take long to finish roasting to a nice golden brown .
Keep in mind that tap water is tested to ensure it 's safe for human consumption . Rainwater has no such requirement . While rainwater seems to be a happy-fuzzy natural resource , I 'd like to stress that this could be a serious safety issue . Yes , it seems unlikely , but you need an authority who knows their water . I suggest seeking out a professional opinion on how to properly filter rainwater . Possibly from the people who handle your municipal water supply .
Almost certainly : <URL> . I 'd go with the ' porridge ' or ' brown rice setting ' if your cooker has it . Concensus on water ratio seems to be about same as for rice . Here 's a question which lists <URL> . With a quality cooker , you can also make baked beans and tasty onion soup .
Quinoa naturally contains a bitter compound on the outside of the seed . Usually you have to rinse the quinoa to remove the bitterness but most commercial quinoa seems to have already been rinsed . So , I no longer rinse my quinoa . If you have time , it 's nice to heat a pan and add the quinoa and toast it a little ( for a nutty flavor and fluffier texture ) , then add water and salt . I typically bring the water to a boil ( 2 cups water to 1 cup quinoa plus 1/4 tsp salt ) , cover and reduce the heat to a simmer for 10-20 minutes ( or until the little tails release ) . Lately I 've found that using a rice cooker is a no-fuss way to prepare quinoa . I usually just do quinoa , water and sea salt but you can add spices while cooking it if you want to enhance the flavor . I would add vegetables afterwards . Quinoa is so quick-cooking I would n't see the need for a pressure cooker .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
No , it 's not necessary . You can do it , and if you 'd soak them for about an hour , the cooking time will diminish strongly ( half ) . I 'm not sure if this would affect the chalky taste . Which kind of lentils do you use ?
Cooking time will vary greatly depending not only on the cut of fish but also the cooking method . In general , your cod will be done when it reaches an internal temperature of 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) , regardless of cooking method . Here are some times/temperatures that work for me : Sous Vide : 10 minutes or more at 56 ° C , followed by a quick broiling/grilling/blow torch . Baking ( thick fillets ) : 15 -- 20 minutes at 218 ° C ( 425 ° F ) . Baking <URL> : 15 minutes at 232 ° C ( 450 ° F ) . Deep Frying : 7 -- 8 minutes at 190 ° C ( 375 ° F ) . Steaming : 6 minutes . Poaching : I like to add the fish to the cooking liquid while the liquid is room temperature . I bring it to a simmer , and then turn the heat to low , cover , and cook for about 15 minutes . Pan Frying : This is n't quite as popular a method as the above for cooking cod , however , if you want to do it , I would recommend cooking it on high heat , flipping once the opaqueness has reached about halfway up the side of the fillet . Basically , it does n't matter which method you use as long as your cod ends up with an even internal temperature of around 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) .
There are many dishes where chicken and rice are cooked mixed together in the same pot . Look at Arroz con Pollo for example , it 's an easy classic and there are loads of recipes . There 's also some types of Biryani , Jambalaya , and other traditional recipes from across the world that would work . Chicken pieces and rice cook in about the same time as you say , if you want to get vegetables in there it 's a bit more complicated as you want the vegetables to be cooked , but not overcooked . I 've generally made them separately to put put as a side as it 's more attractive , however large carrot chunks cook about the same time , and you can put in pureed vegetables or even vegetable juice . One my mother makes uses crushed tomatoes instead of water to cook the rice in . As for having the chicken mixed in or on top there 's no right answer , I like to brown the chicken and lay it skin side up on top of the rice as the rice will cook up around the chicken and the visual effect is good when the pot is put on the table . Visuals aside there 's little difference in the method .
When cooking Chinese ribs , they are usually boiled down ... ( I am a cook from Hong Kong ) We usually cut the ribs bone-attached into small cubes before cooking , quite unlike the western cooking style . stir-frying : Usually we stir-fry the rib with a sauce of choice ; black bean and chili is my favourite . One can also use the sweet-sour ( sometimes with the ribs sort of diced with bone attached , fried with a flour dip ) , and chinese preserved vinegar ( This is often an unpleasent flavour for most foreigners who are n't familiar with it IMHO ) steaming : You can marinade the rib , either with black bean and chili or sometimes plum-sauce and a little bit of salt to taste . Then just throw it in there and steam it done . The resultant meat is nicely done and we mix the sauce with the rice to make it great tasting ( sort of a good idea when i 'm out of money and need to eat more rice , and less meat ... The sauce is then quite rich in pork fat though , unhealthy , pardon me ... ) braising : this one is often done with five spice , sometimes red preserved-tofu ( nam-yu , as we call it in cantonese ) . or you can make your own homemade marinade by using different amount of ( 1 ) soy-sauce , ( 2 ) salt , ( 3 ) pepper ( white ) and ( 4 ) sugar . Then stir-fry it , or saute it , then optionally you can add little bit of starch-water to get the ' sauce ' thickened , and serve . Sometimes we use the oyster sauce to marinade the food as well , but mind you that the quality differs , if you want the best , I would suggest ' lee-kam-kee ' premium , old-style oyster sauce for this purpose , for best result , add sugar .
Harrold McGee indicates in On Food and Cooking that soaking brown rice for 20-30 minutes can speed the cooking . However , he does n't give any specifics . In looking to what I consider highly credible cooking web sites , I have not found any definitive answers . Cook 's Illustrated 's recommended method for the fastest , best tasting brown rice ( no link since it is probably on the pay site ) is : Boiling the rice for our brown rice recipe until it is almost tender ( about 30 minutes ) , draining it , then steaming it until done ( another five to 10 minutes ) is by far the best stovetop method for brown rice . <URL> ( 50 minutes steaming , 10 minutes resting ) is quite similar . <URL> recommends baking technique which may be delicious but is almost certainly the one that will heat your house the most : putting rice in a casserole covered with boiling water , and baking at 375 & deg ; F for 1 hour . You have actually asked two different questions : What is the fastest way to cook rice ( duration ) ? What is the most energy efficient way to cook rice ( least heating of your house ) ? These are not the same thing . Something to consider : of all liquid non-metals ( and I do n't think any of us are going to cook in molten iron ) , water has the the highest capacity to transfer heat . It is going to be very difficult to find a way to cook rice that is faster ( at least for actual time cooking the rice , when not counting bringing water to the boil ) than the traditional pasta method , as often employed in some parts of India : Bring water to a boil , add the rice , cook until done , and drain . However , the energy required to bring all of the surplus water to the boil and the enthalpy of vaporization will make this fast , but not efficient . Your most energy efficient rice production method ( and this is by the very laws of physics which govern our universe is also the one that will add the least heat to your home ) is almost certainly a rice cooker , which will heat only until it senses the rice is done . ( Of course , what the rice cookers are really measuring is the rise in temperature when the water is all absorbed or evaporated , and so the temperature can rise ; therefore , starting with the correct ratio of rice to water is critical ) . The bottom line : brown rice takes time to cook . Some rice cookers , however , let you set a timer so that the pot will have the rice ready when you come home . This might be your best bet .
Sausages are pretty forgiving . As long as you do n't burn them or leave the center raw , they should come out OK . Since they 're pretty fatty ( at least the good ones are ) there 's little chance of drying them out , so when in doubt , cook them a little longer . They 'll feel firm , not squishy , when they 're done . The easiest way to cook raw sausages is in the oven ( at 350-375 ° F , 180-190 ° C or so ) . If you 're doing it on the stove , I 'd brown them first in a little ( very little ) oil , then add some water , or beer , or wine , or whatever you happen to have ( not much - just enough to cover the bottom ) , cover , reduce the heat , and simmer until done . Feel free to cook some vegetables in the pan along with the sausage .
Restaurants quite often cook pigs cheeks ' sous vide ' , but unless you have , or fancy investing in a water bath , you can do things the old fashioned way . How you prepare the cheeks for cooking will , to some extent , depend on which part you 're cooking . If you 're going to cook the whole cheek , you really should think about soaking in a brine of sugar , salt , vinegar and spices for 24 to 48 hours . If you 're just cooking the ' pad ' that part can be skipped . The thing to remember with cheeks , is they are quite a fatty meat and the muscle fibres are very dense , so whichever method you choose , it 's going to take time . One classic method is braising the cheeks with a variety of vegetables and something slightly sweet and sharp as a counter for the fat and cook in the oven for 2 to 3 hours at around 180c ( 350f ) Basically dust the cheeks in a little flour and season , then brown in some olive oil . remove form the pan and lightly sauté your vegetables , use leeks , baby onions , carrots , apples , garlic etc. add the cheeks pack to the pan , add some stock or stock/cider mix and cook . You could also do this on the hob ( cooker top ) in a heavy bottomed pan , but cook for 4 hours on a low heat .
Just treat them as you would corned beef . I like the pressure cooker method
I have had the same issue when cooking lots of quesadillas , and have found the following combination of techniques to work quite well . The obvious answer has been hit upon already , lower the heat . But I think that 's missing an important aspect of the issue . What 's happening is most likely that you are turning on the heat and then cooking your first omelet before the pan has actually reached temperature . Depending on the type of pan , it can take up to 5 mins for the pan to reach temperature . So , as you continue to cook , the pan is getting closer to temperature . Of course , each time you add more cold egg , the temp decreases again . So your heat is too hot , but it does n't really become apparent until the last omelet . Rather than just starting at a lower temperature though , start at the same temp you tried and then turn down the temperature as you continue to cook . The pan can also heat rapidly between omelets . Take the pan off the heat , swirl your butter or oil through it , add the egg , and then put it back on the heat . If it seems really hot when you add the egg , you can cook it for a second with just the radiant heat of the pan before returning to the burner . This will stop the pan from getting too hot between omelets .
end question
start question
How can I rescue overproofed bread ?
Normally , you would not be doing a final proof overnight -- that is , the proof that you have done to form the loaf . Instead , you would do the first ferment or proof overnight , then form the loaf , let it have its final proof , and then bake it . The dough wo n't be wasted , but you do n't want to bake a formed loaf that has over-proofed and fallen . This is because the gluten network will have collapsed and you will have a very poor structure and strange texture . You will need to reknead the dough , form the loaf , and reproof it : Per <URL> , you can almost certainly just punch the dough down , and let it proof again . It may actually have an improved flavor . <URL> concurs : Using your fingertips , gently punch down the over-proofed dough and reshape it into a ball , then allow it to proof again for the recommended amount of time although it warns your final loaf may be about 20 % smaller .
When this happens to me , I am distrustful of a simple reheat . It is possible that it was undercooked , but also possible that it was maybe overcooked/understirred and that most of the binding proteins solidified on the bottom and too little of them remained in the milk , or maybe that the ratios were simply wrong . Your specific recipe also contains starch , so if you truly undercooked , then it 's very probable that the yolks dissolved your starch , so you are left without any starch binding power . The most secure way is to throw it out and make another batch , this time boiling so that it blubbs for at least a minute . If you really want to save it , just use another thickener . In pure custards , I tend to add starch if they do n't turn out . If there is already starch in there , I prefer another thickener such as xanthan . First , I do n't know why the starch did n't work the first time , but repeating it somehow feels wrong . Second , it can get too much of a starchy/floury taste . The " other dish " is not something that can be answered on a Stack Exchange site . You have limitless possibilities to do with it whatever you want , starting with drinking it as it is . Anything which you can make with a custard which was made thin on purpose can be made with your failed custard too .
Let it sit , pray carryover cooking does the job ( unlikely ) Wrap it in plastic wrap , tightly spin the top to close . Twist ' the tail ' into a knot or secure with string . Put it back in the water . Position it ' hole-up ' on a baking sheet , put in an oven ( time-consuming ) Crack the egg over a bowl , finish in a pan on low heat ( not ideal for runny yolks ) Microwave ( sad , but could work ) I vote for number 2 .
The clumps come from too much liquid on the glass when applying the sugar . The way I learned to salt a glass was to dip the glass upside-down in a shallow plate or bowl of water , let it drip for 5-10 seconds , then dip it into an evenly layered plate of salt . I think this should work for sugaring a glass .
As a rule of thumb for a whole fish , and not a fillet - the gills should be bright red the skin/scales should be bright and shiny like metal this fish should n't really smell of anything except ' watery ' the flesh should rebound quickly when pressed the eyes should be bright and clear really fresh fish is also quite slimey to touch if it 's straight out of the water . I remember being quite surprised at this from my first fishing trip a few years back .
Time is n't the main factor , gluten development is . You should knead the dough until the gluten is sufficiently developed to give the dough elasticity , and the final bread good structure . There are two simple tests you can perform to check whether your dough is kneaded sufficiently . First , the Poke Test . Form the dough into a ball , and with a floured finger , give it a light poke . If it springs back to its original shape , you 're on the right track . Secondly , you can do the Windowpane Test . Grab off a chunk of dough , then try and stretch it apart . If the gluten is sufficiently developed , the dough should n't tear - it should stretch to a point where you can see light through it , hence the name .
Your metal bowl sitting in your 70 ° F room is 70 ° F ( at least , if its been sitting there for a bit ) . Your plastic bowl , or glass bowl , or ceramic bowl , or any other bowl sitting in the same room is also 70 ° F. They 're all actually the same temperature . Now , given , when you touch the metal bowl , it feels cooler than the plastic one . This is because your finger is n't 70 ° F , and your body heat is transferred away quicker by metal than ( say ) plastic . If the dough is room temperature , it wo n't matter -- heat is n't flowing out of it . The dough itself does n't generate much heat . If your dough started above room temperature , it will cool a little quicker in a metal bowl . But , if you wanted to keep it from cooling , putting it in a warm place is much more effective . A stainless steel bowl is fine . I 'd avoid aluminum ( and copper , if anyone makes a mixer with such a thing ) due to them being reactive , especially if you 're making sourdough .
Dry biscuits ( American ' biscuits ' - not cookies ) , or anything other flour based quick bread that dried out - if you 're trying to replicate the bread crumbs . You may be able to get by with a modified muffin recipe as well . You 'll want to avoid fats and oils to reduce the moistness . Yeast bread develops a particular flavor and larger hole structure than quick bread though . The flavor of a quick bread breadcrumbs should be slightly different , but in many dishes the subtle difference wo n't be overwhelming unless the breading is a ' star ' of the dish . The hole structure really does n't matter luckily - as developing that is a large part of the time factor of real bread . Drying it out will be the harder part . The denser structure holds moisture better , so slice it thin and give it low , dry , long heat . Personally , anything that you 're going to make for the purpose of breadcrumbs that is n't just a substitute ( like cereal , crackers , etc in the other answer ) , sounds like it 'd be easier just to make a loaf of fast rise bread to me .
The primary coloring agents in a traditional black Russian loaf are molasses and dark rye flour .
You can add a handful of pumpkin seeds or sunflower seeds . You do n't need to adjust any of the other ingredients . Sunflower seeds contain a ton of good stuff , including fibre , according to <URL> : " In addition to linoleic acid ( an essential fatty acid ) , sunflower seeds are also an excellent source of dietary fiber , some amino acids ( especially tryptophan ) , Vitamin E , B Vitamins ( especially vitamin B1 or thiamine , vitamin B5 or pantothenic acid and folate ) , and minerals such as copper , manganese , potassium , magnesium , iron , phosphorus , selenium , calcium and zinc . [ 5 ] Additionally , they are rich in cholesterol-lowering phytosterols . "
You do n't have to use water as the liquid in your bread . Enriched breads use milk and/or eggs . We have recently had questions about breads which use orange juice . On the technical side , you have to adjust recipe a little . Pickle juice does n't have much dissolved solids , so no need to adjust for that . However , it is very salty , so you should reduce or completely leave out the salt . The acidity will help with gluten development and also with breaking down the starches in flour to make them available for chemical reactions which produce more flavour , so this is a good thing to have . However , yeast itself has some strong pH preferences . It grows best in a slightly acidic environment , but if the dough gets too basic or too sour , it will slow down or not grow at all . I think that the diluted vinegar in the pickle water wo n't oversour the dough , but it would be a good idea to make the poolish with pure water and only add pickle water for the dough itself . As for taste , I ca n't say that much without ever having tried it , but my intuition says that you will get a whiff of pickles , but not a full-blown taste . After all , bread made with orange juice does n't taste like biting into an orange . I think you will notice the difference , but you will still have to add pickles to your sandwiches for taste ( and they are needed for the crunch anyway ) . As for horrible , it depends entirely on personal taste . I am not a fan of pickles or soured breads , and would n't eat it . There are people who drink the pickle water from the jar ; I think they will enjoy the pickle-smelling bread too . If you are a pickle fan , I think it is worth a try , if it does n't work , you only throw out under a dollar 's worth of ingredients .
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
The best approach is to use most of it to make a starter and feed the mother with flour and water for the next bread . Once you have the mother , you can feed it with as much flour as you need . Let 's say you have 1 cup of mother at 100 % hydration . You should use 3/4 cups of it to make a starter for the bread ( add flour and water to form a starter your formula suggests ) . Then , feed the remaining 1/4 cup with 3/8 of both water and flour to make it 1 cup again . Then , when your starter is active enough ( it 's better to rest overnight ) , you can make the bread the same way you do with commercial yeast . Just be sure to calculate the flour and water in the starter for baker percentages . The numbers are symbolic , it 's better to use weight and not volume for correct calculations of baker 's percentages .
I think on some level you 'll just get what you get with something hard like an almond . A really really sharp knife with a thin blade can help , but you can only do so much . My hand-cut ones are always a bit on the raggedy side . When using a food processor , try smaller batches to leave bigger or more consistent pieces . You do n't have to pulse as long to get everything broken up , so you get less that 's ground to nothing . Do a small batch for a short chop , dump 'em out , do another . As to how to do slivered or sliced almonds , I always figured that they started with blanched almonds ( which are less crisp in my experience ) or maybe even raw ones and then roasted them after cutting to crisp them up . You might experiment with blanched or unroasted almonds and see if you get a better result with a knife .
Melting carob is a bit different from chocolate . The sugar crystal formation is not the same for tempering chocolate . One suggestion is to add paramount crystals ( which is a combination of palm kernel oil and soy lecithin ) to help start/control the process . I would also recommend not keeping the double boiler actually on the double boiler for the entire time . Heat it up until some of the carob melts . Remove from heat and stir . Add it back to the heat and continue removing to stir as each bit melts a little more . It takes longer but it allows you to control the heating and crystallization process . End the end , you should have a smoother and more even end result .
Smaller breads are usually called rolls or sometimes buns . There are also a lot of names for specific kinds of rolls , beyond obvious things like " sourdough rolls " . You can certainly take an existing recipe and just form in to more , smaller pieces , and reducing baking time . They 'll look funny if you just cut it into pieces , though ; you should reform them into something rounder . It 's hard to say exactly how much less baking time it 'll take , since it depends on exactly how small you make them . It might be anywhere from roughly a quarter to half the original baking time , and especially for smaller rolls with shorter baking times , you 'd probably want to increase the temperature so they 'll still brown by the time they 're done . Very small ones will be on the low end of the time range , and need more increase in temperature ; larger ones will take longer and not need as much temperature increase . Given all that , you might want to just look for a recipe for rolls that suits you . Simpler , less chance of messing up !
You can use Chuck to make your shredded beef . Cook it for a long time , at a low temperature , until a probe slides in and out of it with no resistance . Braising in a liquid seasoned with spices like cumin , garlic , and chili powder will get you the flavor profile you want ( I recommend either finding a recipe or some trial and error ) .
You absolutely do n't need a bread maker for good bread . They have been making bread for at least 22,000 years and I promise , in the vast majority of those , having a bread maker would have gotten you stoned as a witch ( if you had electricty to run it ) . However , a good bread maker will vastly cut down on the time you have to spend making bread . Basically , bread by hand requires a few hours and lot of physical kneading to develop the gluten that gives bread it 's structure and in a bread machine , you dump the ingredients in , turn it on and walk away , then come back and enjoy some fresh bread .
There really is n't another name for Dutch processed cocoa . You could perhaps look at the ingredients or label and search for some reference to alkalization . Cocoa powder , Dutched or natural , consists of a single ingredient : cocoa . The difference is that Dutched cocoa has an extra step in the manufacturing process . Normal cocoa powder is created from cocoa beans . These beans are fermented , roasted , shelled , and then ground into a paste known as chocolate liquor . This is roughly 50/50 cocoa butter ( fat ) and cocoa solids . At this step it is can be molded and sold as unsweetened baking chocolate . To make cocoa powder the liquor is hydraulically pressed to remove ~ 75 % of the fat , and then pulverized into cocoa powder . Dutched cocoa powder has an extra step before the shelled beans are ground into liquor . They are soaked in an alkaline solution of potassium carbonate . Dutched cocoa was created in the 19th century by a Dutchman named Coenraad J. van Houten . Van Houten had invented the method of using a hydraulic press to defat chocolate liquor . Hot chocolate in these times would have a fatty greasy scum floating on the top of the beverage . Removing much of the fat prevented this . However , it also made the drink much harsher , acidic , and gave it a much lighter color . Van Houten 's idea was to counteract the cocoa 's natural acidity ( pH ~ 5.4 ) by soaking it in an alkaline solution . This neutralized the acids in the cocoa raising the pH to neutral ( 7 ) or higher depending on the duration of the soak . The higher pH also has the added benefit of darkening the cocoa ; the higher it goes , the darker it gets . Now , you might think that mellowing out the cocoa would be undesirable for the flavor . However this has been shown to not be the case . It turns out that the very acidic nature of natural cocoa can actually mask many of the natural undertones of flavor in the chocolate . Chocolate is much like wine and has hundreds of flavors that make up its flavor profile . These include sour , bitter , astringent , fruity , figgy , nutty , floral , smoky , and may more . Dutching only targets the bitter , astringent , sour and fruity undertones allowing the remaining ones to really showcase the chocolate . There is a bit of misinformation that floats amongst bakers that the pH of the cocoa can affect the leavening of the baked good . Many recipes will actually sternly suggest using either Dutched or natural cocoa depending . This makes sense since leavening is a sort of balancing act that involves both acids and bases . However , it has been experimentally shown that this does not actually occur , and baked goods made with both Dutched and natural cocoa powder showed no differences in leavening . So to actually address your questions . Again , no there is n't another name for Dutched cocoa , but it ca n't hurt to check for alkalized verbage . There is ( should ) also no additional ingredient that would identify a cocoa powder as Dutched . The key property it provides is simply chocolate flavor . This answer is adapted from the Jan. 1 , 2005 Cook 's Illustrated review of <URL> . Their results showed that without fail Dutched cocoa was voted superior to natural cocoa in every single blind taste test including : pudding , shortbread , devil 's food cake , and hot chocolate ( which was masked by a sippy-top so reviewers could not see the tell-tale color ) . If the cost does n't make you do a double take ( it 's not really that expensive considering the quantity ) . I highly suggest you buy a 1 kg ( 2.2 lb ) bag of <URL> . This was the winner of the blind taste test performed by Cook 's Illustrated . I must agree that it will change your baked goods for the better like you would not believe .
end question
start question
Is smell a bad way of determining whether meat is still good ?
It is absolutely untrue and very dangerous to think that " if it looks OK , and smells OK , it must be OK . " If that were the case , food poisoning would be very rare . Food that we can sense is spoiled rarely causes illness . For one thing what you do n't eat ca n't hurt you , and people generally wo n't eat food that looks or smells spoiled . But less obviously , much of what causes spoilage that we can taste , see or smell is actually fairly harmless to humans . Spoilage and rancidity are terms that are often used interchangeably , but rancidity is actually a specific kind of spoilage , caused by the relatively harmless oxidation of fats which is unrelated to any kind of bacteria or other microorganism . It 's just a function of time , temperature , oxygen , and light . Fancy dried cured meats get a fair amount of their special flavor from controlled rancidity . Molds and yeasts cause food to spoil , but are also used in controlled ways to create flavor . Dairy cultures are bacteria , and bacteria plays a major role in fermentation . What causes illness and death are often things that we ca n't taste , see , or smell . Salmonella , E. coli and C. botulinum are usually undetectable by our senses . Mishandled food that has been heated to temperatures far hotter than is necessary to kill any and all dangerous organisms can still kill if those organisms have produced chemical toxins or deadly spores . We usually ca n't sense those either . That 's why the " rules " exist . You need to take care to keep food out of the dreaded " danger zone " . Foods that are considered unsafe unless cooked to a specific temperature ARE unsafe unless cooked to that temperature ( although government recommendations in that matter are often overly conservative , there is room there for assessing your own risk ) . Preserved foods must have appropriate acid , salinity , sugar or other tested preservatives . Stored foods must be kept at the proper temperature . Dried foods must be dried correctly . Canning procedures rules seem overly strict . They are not . Learn the rules , disobey them at your peril . There is a lot of good information here under the <URL> tag . We are not making this stuff up . The <URL> " estimates that each year roughly 1 in 6 Americans ( or 48 million people ) get sick , 128,000 are hospitalized , and 3,000 die of foodborne diseases . " That 's just in the US where food handlers ( home and professional ) are mostly educated in basic food hygiene and just about everyone has access to a refrigerator . The worldwide figures are staggering .
I 've never made Citrus Sugar , but I certainly have made vanilla sugar . Crystaline sugar soaks up the moisture , so if bacteria or mold were to invade the pot , it would be dehydrated quickly and would n't survive , let alone thrive . They need a good bit of moisture to reproduce . I 've never had a problem with my vanilla sugar and it does n't take long for the vanilla beans to turn into little vanilla toothpicks .
Probably not . Cans are generally marked at point of filling , not at point of manufacturing The plastic liner looks plastic ' y in all cases , it 's very hard to tell . Epoxy is harder than other plastics , but there are epoxies that are BPA free anyway Aluminium cans are more likely have a epoxy liner that will give off a trace of BPA Many steel cans do not use epoxy or other BPA plastics Having said that the tested BPA release from a can is 100 's of times lower than the recommended maximum daily dose . So in theory there is nothing to really worry about The common sense answer is , if epoxy dissolved into the cans contents they would n't use it would they . The whole reason it 's there is to stop the contents ' eating ' the can
Alton Brown <URL> using a piece of string to scrape the bone clean . First he cuts and trims the bulk of the meat down to where he wants it . Then , he uses a string tied to a garage door handle ( very cheap at any hardware store ) . Loop it around the bone a couple of times and pull , and it cleans it right up .
Donuts are a deep fried food . The texture of deep fried food is unique and can not be duplicated by other methods . If you bake doughnut dough , you will get small rolls , which will have a similar aroma , but not the same combination of moist , soft inside and fat-crispy outside . You could bake it , as with any other yeast dough , only nobody will recognize it as a donut . Assuming that you want to get actual donuts , you must fry them . And no matter what you do to them , the more oil you use to fry them , the better your donuts will turn out . The physics of deep frying include throwing pieces of food with a starchy surface ( potatoes , or breaded items , or dough pieces like donuts ) in oil at around 190 degrees Celsius . At this temperature , the outer surface of the dough/vegetable/breading crisps immediately , preventing from any oil getting into the item and any vapor getting out of the item . This only works when the oil in the vicinity of the fried item stays within a few degrees of the target temperature during the first ~ 30 seconds of the frying process . Which means that you need a stable temperature in your fryer . Now , thermodynamics tells us that , if you throw a 25 degrees piece of food into a puddle of 190 degrees hot oil , they will exchange warmth proportionally to their mass . So , if you want the oil to stay close to the correct temperature , the mass of the donut has to be very small in comparison to the mass of the oil -- which means that you need lots of oil . The options you have to do with less oil are all unsatisfactory from my point of view , you might decide to pick one of them . Put up with the quality reduction . Use less oil in the pan , maybe even shallow frying in oil up to the half of the donut only . The donuts will lose moisture and soak up grease . The less oil you use , the worse the grease soak will be . Also , you will use up more oil , because you will have to constantly add the amount soaked up by the already fried donuts . You may consider it well used instead of wasted , because you get to eat it , but from my point of view this is the worst option . Trade time for oil . You can use a small pot , and fry a single donut at a time . Frying 50 g donuts should go well with under 500 ml oil . You are still a bit constrained by the fact that the oil temperature will fluctuate more due to factors not related to the oil , but it should be manageable , if you have the patience . Note that if you place multiple donuts in the small pan , you are getting towards the first or third solution . Try to manage a stable temperature in a donut-crowded small pan by using a very hot setting and letting the oil get too hot before adding a new donut . This is a very complicated thing to manage , especially seeing that you are trying to not burn the other donuts in the pan at the same time . I do n't think I could manage it , and if I could , the oil would n't be worth the stress . There is also the extra energy to consider -- not as expensive as throwing out more oil , but probably worse from an environmental point of view . In the end , if you want good donuts , you have to use a pot/fryer where they can swim freely in oil . Any change you make to this setup reduces the quality of your donut , making it less donut-like .
The answer , quite simply , is no . Even advanced laboratories have difficulty making the determination for certain . This is also a complex problem that gets more difficult as various standards are used and then fail . Before 2000 , a common solution was to simply use microscopic analysis to look for pollen and and other vegetable matter . Since then , many honey processing plants have been developing increasingly advanced filtering techniques that will remove the characteristic markers ( deliberately or unintentionally ) . [ ** See detailed note below . ] Various chemical or basic physical markers also have proved insufficient , since the sugar composition of honey can be faked quite well with various sugar syrup blends . The accepted standard these days , as mentioned in the question , seems to be to use a mass spectrometer to determine the <URL> in a rather specific lab procedure . ( Obviously most people do n't have a mass spectrometer at home . ) The current procedure for this test was adopted after previous lab tests were shown to <URL> in some batches of honey . The isotope ratio method is the only one specifically listed in the FDA 's <URL> to determine the possibility of adulteration : FDA laboratories do not have the instrumental capability to analyze honey according to the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC International , AOAC Official Method 991.41 , which requires an isotope ratio mass spectrometer . Ironically , in order to avoid the previous false positives for the New Zealand honey mentioned above , the new testing process <URL> , a process which has also been used to hide the origin of honey and to confuse analysis : To eliminate a false positive C ( 4 ) sugar test for Manuka honey , prior removal of pollen and other insoluble material from the honey is necessary to ensure that only the pure protein is isolated . But even a refined isotopic methodology is flawed when it comes to detecting various types of adulteration , specifically beet sugar . As <URL> notes : [ Using isotope ratios from a mass spectrometer , ] adulteration using C4 sugar syrups ( HFCS and GS ) could be detected to a certain extent while adulteration of honey using C3 sugar syrups ( beet sugar ) could not be detected . Adulteration by using SS ( beet sugar ) still has a serious detection problem , especially in countries in which beet is used in manufacturing sugar . So , what 's the alternative ? Well , the other general method that could detect various adulterating components is <URL> ( DSC ) . <URL> gives a good summary of the process , which essentially looks at how a material behaves as it undergoes thermal changes . At certain temperatures when crystallization or something occurs , there will be excess heat absorbed or given off compared to at other temperatures . And at other points there will be minor changes in heat capacity ( i.e. , the amount of heat it takes to alter the temperature of a substance by a specific number of degrees ) . Honey , for example , displays a glass transition temperature ( Tg ) around -40 ° C ( -40 ° F ) near a certain point in crystallization . Other sugar syrups may not show this , but they may show changes at slightly higher temperatures ( still below freezing ) , due to water crystals freezing or thawing . ( Water is included in the sugar network in honey , so it does n't show the same characteristics . ) There are other thermal properties that can be measured at various temperatures . As <URL> summarizes in its conclusion : Used concomitantly with the second enthalpy of fusion ( occurring between 40 and 90 ° C ) , the glass transition temperature , Tg , is one of the most potentially useful parameters for characterizing honeys and syrups and for distinguishing between them . The Tg value , being strongly dependent on the amorphous phases of the sample , will respond to modification of the chemical composition and the implicit structural modification caused by the addition of exogenous material . Thus , adulteration of the honey will cause inevitable changes in both Tg and [ delta ] H2 values . Under laboratory conditions , adulterations by industrial sugar syrups can be detected from 5-10 % additions depending on the measured parameter . I would pay particular attention to this final sentence -- the differences can only be detected " under laboratory conditions " where precise temperatures and amounts of heat can be measured . To replicate such a test at home , you 'd need to be able to add a certain precise amount of heat to the honey at subzero temperatures , all the while keeping it isolated from other sources of temperature fluctuations and observing where the heating " stalls " briefly . Then , you 'd have to calibrate your homemade test against some known samples ( syrups , 100 % honey , etc. ) just to be sure you 're actually observing the same things as in the article cited here . You 'd need to confirm that by observing a more subtle difference in heat capacity changes that would occur in hot temperature ranges
There is no single cut of meat that is universally used in Philadelphia . <URL> is common , and it may actually be the most traditional given the sandwich 's Italian origins ( top round is what is used in <URL> and <URL> ) . It is becoming more and more common to use <URL> , though , which is what is used in some of the most popular Philadelphian establishments ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) , which makes sense given its higher fat content . As <URL> mentioned , you should be able to get your butcher to slice the meat into thin ( ~ 1mm ) pieces . If that is not possible , though , you can put an entire rib-eye roast into the freezer for a half hour or so . This will harden the meat without actually freezing it solid , and will make thinly slicing by hand much easier .
Since you love bacon , I strongly recommend getting a <URL> . That way , you can cook both bacon and sausage at the same time . I 'd slice the sausage to about 1/4 -1 / 2 " thick and lay them on the grill . Takes less than 10mins to cook both bacon and sausage , and you do n't have to flip either . Another good thing about the grill is that the slanted surface drains the grease .
From the description " Rock-solid " you guess correctly that you have overcooked your jam mixture . The process of overcooking your jam mixture results in most of the water content evaporating . In candy terms , your jam is probably somewhere between Hard-Ball stage to Caramelized stage . For jelly/jam you want the temperature around 220 degree F. Hard ball stage is about 250 degree F. Depending on how far your " jam " is into these stages you may be able to save your " jam " by introducing more water back into it . Try and out a small portion of it into a sauce pan and adding a little bit of water to it . If you are able to turn that mixture into something resembling jam by adding water , that means you have n't cooked it beyond saving and you can do that to the rest of your jam . Note that fruit flavors are volatile so cooking further will result in the blackberry flavors deteriorating . Otherwise treat your jam mixture as a candy .
Two things - If the marinade is very strong or salty then the meat could simply become over flavored . If the marinade includes a meat digesting enzyme such as papain then leaving it too long could turn the meat to mush .
Sweet , semisweet , etc. are American terms for the different chocolate " grades " and are determined by the amount of cocoa mass in the chocolate . In many other countries , terms referring to " darkness " are used . But do n't go ahead and use just any chocolate labelled " dark " , because there are huge differences between brands . I have seen 40 % chocolate marketed as " very dark " or " bitter " chocolate . You should look at the ingredients instead . They list the amount of cocoa mass ( = the sum of cocoa solids + cocoa butter ) . White chocolate is always clearly labelled as such , and seldom has a percentage listed for the cocoa mass . This is OK , because you can easily distinguish it . Milk chocolate has around 30 % cocoa mass , and contains milk in addition to the other ingredients . Semisweet chocolate has at least 35 % cocoa , but can be anything between 40 % and 65 % depending on availability and taste . Here you get into " real chocolate " territory . The only ingredients should be cocoa ( can be listed as cocoa butter , cocoa solids , cocoa mass , cocoa liquor , or cocoa particles ) , sugar , and maybe some vanilla . Different forms of sugar are OK , for example organic chocolates often use raw cane sugar . Stay away from anything with vegetable fat , emulgators , and/or E-numbers listed on the package . If you have the choice , prefer chocolates with higher cocoa butter to cocoa solids ratio ( but this information is seldom available ) . Bittersweet chocolate is somewhere in the 70 % to 99 % range . It has the same ingredients as semisweet , just in different proportions . Unsweetened or baking chocolate is essentially 100 % cocoa mass , and may or may not be processed or conched to the same smooth texture as chocolates intended for eating or candy making , depending on the manufacturer . Be aware that the limits are somewhat arbitrary - some authors count a 72 % chocolate to the semisweets , not to the bitters . But I have found these ranges to work well . Usually , you have some leeway , because the texture of whatever you bake ( and even of conditor chocolate items ) does n't change all that much with ten percent difference in the cocoa amount , there are factors which bring in a larger error anyway . To warn you , almost none of the popular chocolate brands for eating are good for serious baking , including the ones you linked . Cadbury , Milka , Hershey 's and so on are no good . Also , what you see in the baking aisle sold under the name " baking chocolate " or " block chocolate " is probably no good either . At least here in Germany , it is made mostly out of hardened vegetable fat mixed with some cocoa solids . Pure chocolate is too expensive to gain popularity . The cheapest one around here is Lindt excelsior ( not the Lindor line which has vegetable fat ) for around 2 Euros per 100 g . If you are in the supermarket , you should try looking through the ingredient lists of the " premium " brands to see if one of them is good enough . Else , you can try to find good chocolate online . Some stores will even sell true conditor chocolate ( Varhlona , Callebaut ) in household amounts , but this is still very rare .
Dilute heavily by using a very small portion of peppers per dish Allow cooking time for the pepper flavor to permeate the dish before adding more . It 's not like black pepper where the taste spreads instantly . Remove the seeds and membranes holding them , as this reduces spiciness considerably Cut peppers very finely or puree so there are n't any large pieces to deliver a shocker in the final dish Wear gloves when handling the peppers If you do n't use gloves , wash your hands well before touching your eyes , mouth , or other " sensitive regions . " AND FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS GOOD AND HOLY , DO NOT FRY OR SAUTE THE PEPPERS . No , seriously . The last one is a mistake you only make once , and should be on a warning label with all store-bought chilis . The capsaicin somehow becomes volatile when heated enough , and the result is like filling your entire domicile with pepper spray . I am ashamed to say that the last two cautions are drawn purely from personal experience . It 's not the kind of " hot date " you want to share with an ( un ) lucky person , believe me .
Flavor-wise Nicoise and Kalamatas are somewhat close , probably the closest most readily accesible substitute for most people .
Add cumin , chili powder and garlic powder to your salt and pepper . You might like a bit of curry powder or turmeric too , but I do n't know if you 'd call that a Mexican flavor .
I 'd say that it 's not that we ca n't make cast iron pans as good as the old ones . It 's that for most companies that 's not where the money is . A company does n't make money by making super high quality cast iron ( " like the old stuff " ) that costs $ 100-200 per pan and selling them to a few cast iron enthusiasts ( those prices are random , I do n't actually know how much those would cost if they were made , but it would be a lot more than the current price ) . They make money by selling $ 15-30 cast iron cookware to loads and loads of consumers . Back in the day when manufacturing was n't as automated and people were involved in the process at a lot of steps , it did n't add much incremental cost to also sandblast and polish the surfaces , yielding the super-smooth surfaces that you used to see . Now , when lots of the manufacturing process is automated , adding in the additional time adds significantly to the cost of the product percentage wise . So , could we do it ? Yeah , sure . But big companies wo n't . I just suggest making your own :) As a side comment , newer cast iron is n't as nice as the old stuff for a number of reasons , but I use the newer style cast iron all the time ( my mom has not yet bequeathed me her old cast iron pans ) and it works great . Not as non-stick , heavier , and so forth , but still excellent for cooking .
I notice Flank steak already made the list , and once I would have agreed , but it 's gotten trendy , and with the trendiness , expensive . It 's still not fillet-price , but it tends to run in the 7-8 dollar a pound range where I live . The steak I like to grill that I find to be tasty , cheap , and available is <URL> . Do a light marinade , grill it as lightly as possible , cut across the grain of the meat , serve . Your mileage may vary , however . The cheapest cuts are almost always the ones that local cooks do n't know what to do with , and if the locals are hounds for the fajita , you 're not going to be able to find skirt steak at all . My advice is to go to the store with an open mind , and browse the meat counter looking for deals . I came home with 3 pounds of tenderloin tips for less than twenty bucks the other day : if I 'd gone out looking to buy such a thing , I 'd have been disappointed .
<URL> is a fantastic resource , and has probably <URL> out there at the moment . There 's also a lot of good stuff at the French Cullinary Institute 's <URL> . They 've got <URL> that 's quite enlightening . I actually disagree on the McGee recommendations . While it 's an excellent book , full of great info , I do n't think it 's a good starting point for molecular gastronomy ( in the sense of the cooking movement rather than the more literal sense )
The rate of slime of a piece of food has to do with amount of surface area it has . At each point a food 's surface is an entry point for bacteria . Since there is always bacteria on any cutting utensil or machine every cut piece of meat has been seeded with a bacteria culture . Although it might not kill you or make you visibly sick , the slime is coming from microbes which will stress your immune system that might be fighting other things instead . Unless it 's Nato beans or oysters slime on food is no good . If the cold cuts are sliming quickly it might be because the grocer is not cleaning the machine properly or somebody 's refrigeration is not cold enough , 5 to 10 degree f too warm .
What you 've got there , is a Moka pot . They are unable to produce the amount of pressure that gives the Espresso its character , in particular the crema . I have owned several , and all of them have had this happen . That has had no impact on the flavour or mouth feel .
Marinading should help a great deal , especially a good long marinade . The only other thing you can do is make sure not to overcook the beef . Cutting against the grain does n't guarantee tenderness any more than any other method will , it just helps , so do n't worry too much .
end question
start question
Why do we peel carrots ?
I find when cooked , the skin retains a bit of bitterness and toughness , so in desserts , juices or when shaved/julienned , I 'm inclined to peel them . In fast salads , quick application , I usually do n't bother .
Buy almost-late eggs . The worst-case scenario of egg-shelling is a farm-fresh egg . That annoying film that sticks to both the shell and to the egg will detach , the older the egg gets . The bubble at the fat end , too , will get bigger as the egg ages , which also makes the bottom cap pop off more easily . Obviously , we do n't want rotten eggs . We want the almost expired but not expired ones . Roll the egg against the countertop , cracking it along the " equator " . This will give you lots of starting points , and it will weaken the shell in enough directions that the rest of the peeling becomes easier . Usually , the top and bottom caps come off in large and clean pieces , so do n't bother cracking that part unless it sticks . Start from the fat end of the egg . After much experimenting , I 've determined that starting from the bottom of the egg ( the fat end ) is the best way to do it . Give the egg one good whack on the countertop , and the bottom caves in quite easily . This gives you a really nice starting point . Now peel out from there in a spiraling pattern down the rest of the egg . The top cap still comes off quite easily in one big chunk , if the egg is old enough .
They are easier to mash ( so that they incorporate more smoothly into the batter ) , sweeter ( more starch has converted to sugar ) , and more aromatic when overripe . Still , you can get quite a good muffin or banana bread from fully ripe , but not overripe , bananas .
Another physics digression . All cooked food gets hot , and everything in any given dish will have the same temperature { * } . The tomatoes do n't get hotter than the other ingredients . But they do have a tendency to burn more than certain other substances , so the question is " Why ? " . You get burned when a portion of your flesh reaches a high enough temperature { + } . The food warms your tongue , lips , etc. by heat conduction until either you move the food or your mouth parts and the food reach the same temperature ( a condition known as thermal equilibrium ) . What that common temperature is depends on the amount of heat ( i.e. thermal energy ) in the system . Some of the factors that come into play are : How much ( mass of ) food there is . How much ( mass of ) your mouth is involved ( see below ) . The initial temperature of the food . The " heat capacity " of both the food and your mouth parts , which is a property of each substance that appears as a coefficient in the thermal equilibrium equation . ( Do n't worry , I 'm not going to make you read any math . ) Water has a ( very ! ) high heat capacity , so watery foods tend to drive high final temperature and thus to burn you more easily . There is an added complication for the extra heat needed to establish a phase change ( i.e. melt solids or vaporize liquids ) called the heat of fusion or heat of vaporization . Again water has a high value for both of these numbers . How fast the common temperature is reached depends on The area of contact between the food and the mouth . Another coefficient called the thermal conductivity . This one is complicated , but liquids tend to have a high thermal conductivity and solids less so . This is where soups , sauces , and melted cheese really get you . Note that your mouth parts has a pretty low thermal conductivity , so you only get to count the surface layers in finding the equilibrium temperature . Sorry . Some consequences of all this : This is why you can peel the aluminum foil off of a pan that has just come out of a 400 degree ( F ) oven without trouble , but if you get your hand stuck in the steam plume ( which is only around 212 degrees F ) you get scalded : Aluminum has a low heat capacity , and steam has a ( very , very ! ) high one . Small bites help in two ways : less total heat means a lower common temperature , and may allow you to move the food around in your mouth , reducing the temperature of any one part . Some foods are just dangerous this way . You know what they are from experience : steam , hot soups and sauces , melted cheese , etc. . { * } Well , sort of . But take that as true for any particular region of any particular dish . { + } What temperature is that ? Good question . Maybe there is a medical professional around , 'cause I do n't know . I 'd guess around 140 -- 150 degrees F ( call it 60 -- 65 degrees C ) , but do n't quote me .
This is fairly easy , and completely safe , to do with pectinex enzyme . ... and yes , you want to ! It is how modernist chefs remove the pith from citrus . You can order Pectinex Ultra-SPL from Modernist Pantry ( modernistpantry.com ) . <URL>
No peeling is needed . A good wash and proper cooking will handle all of your food safety needs .
As you can see at the Chapter 7 : Storage of horticultural crops of the book <URL> : If you look p. 166 ( p. 173 on the PDF ) , you can see that the onions need to be stored in this conditions : between 0-5 ° C with a relative humidity ( R.H. ) of 65-70 % If you look p. 168 ( p. 175 on the PDF ) , you can see that the potatoes have different needs : Fresh market : between 4-7 ° C Processing : between 8-12 ° C seed potatoes : between 0-2 ° C But must of all , potatoes need very highest relative humidity ( R.H. ) : 95-98 % versus 65-70 % for onions So , if you store them together , either one or the other will be in bad storage conditions . Further , as you can see at <URL> : Dry onions ( Group 3 ) are very sensitive to moisture , which makes their storage incompatible with the high R.H. needed for potatoes . New potatoes ( Group 6 ) may also produce ethylene , which will badly damage green onions ( Group 2 ) if stored together . Anyway , storage of horticultural crops can not just be resumed by " do n't put this or that together " , as you may have seen : it is important to consider R.H. , temperature , and many other factors . If the subject interests you , all this ( and many other things ) is pretty well explained in the following references : <URL> <URL> <URL> Ethylene is also a " critical factor " , and this topic is more developped in the following resources : <URL> <URL>
Contrary to what several folks have said , garlic is not crushed primarily to help peel the skin . For example , garlic can be peeled easily with the clove intact , by cutting the small hard circular bottom of the clove ( the part that 's attached to the base , opposite to the pointy end ) . This will help loosen the skin , which should then come off very easily or will separate if you gently slide the blade of your knife in and loosen it . While it certainly is true that crushing helps separate the skin , making it easier to peel ( perhaps some folks might do it for that reason at home ) , that is n't the reason why professional cooks do it or the reason why recipes suggest it . Why crush garlic ? Garlic is primarily crushed to release its oils , which in turn infuses subtly different flavours to the dish than if you did n't crush . <URL> above explains the chemical reaction : ... within the garlic cells are alliin and alliinase , which when combined , form allicin , which is the ' strong ' flavor ... You might also find <URL> from the Washington Post , where the author talks about the art of cooking with crushed garlic in Italian restaurants , a really good read . Specifically , the author addresses some of these key points which are very relevant here . 1 . Crushed vs. Minced From basic physics , something that is broken up into several tiny bits has a much larger total surface area than the whole intact piece . Since the oils extrude from the cut surface , it stands to reason that minced garlic will release them sooner and readily , often leading to a more pungent taste than desired . In addition , minced garlic can be quite temperamental and you might often end up over cooking/burning . As the author notes : In its customary minced or chopped form , garlic can impart a pungent flavor that is difficult to harness . Add it too early to a sauté or stew and garlic burns and becomes acrid . Add it in the latter stages of cooking and the garlic steams or boils , leaving it raw-tasting and unpleasant . On the other hand , slightly crushed garlic is more versatile and heat tolerant . Left whole and partially smashed ( just enough to release its powerful oils ) , garlic adapts to a range of high-heat techniques , cooking steadily and lending a mellow richness to a dish . 2 . Usage in dishes Crushed garlic is pretty standard in several Italian dishes . The advantage of having one or two large crushed pieces ( in addition to those mentioned above ) is that you can easily remove them from the dish once you 're satisfied with the aroma/taste of the dish . This can be extremely annoying to do with minced garlic . Some of the dishes that are enhanced by using crushed garlic are : In [ roasts , stews , quick meals and stir-fries ] , smashed garlic cloves are remarkably flexible , absorbing high heat and in turn giving off subtle but substantial flavor . What happens when you crush ? To answer why crushing garlic works , let me quote a bit from <URL> to the very popular question on <URL> ( since we all understand onions better ) : The enzymes and amino acids involved in producing the Onion Lachrymatory Factor ( seriously ! ) are normally contained in the cells , and only become a problem when released in volume . Using a sharper knife will avoid mangling cell walls , creating more clean separations between layers , and reducing the amount of enzymes released . Garlic , along with onions , shallots and leeks belong to the group of plants ( genus ) called <URL> and being very closely related , the above is more or less true . Indeed , it makes sense that if you want large volumes of oils/enzymes , you 'd do exactly the opposite of the above advice , which is to crush it and break all the cell walls ! This also aids in the mixing of the chemicals per Joe 's comment above . Note that although a large volume is " released " or ready to be released due to the crushed cell walls , they make their way to the dish slowly because of the smaller surface area .
Because onions contain a lot of flavour compounds that we like , and which are synergistic with meats .
The theory is that washing the chicken ( or any fowl ) removes all of the contaminates from the surface and cavity of the bird ( ie salmonella , etc. ) . People will be in one of two camps - 1 . those that have been told to do all of their lives , so they do it , and 2 . those who do n't because it is really not necessary . You cook your birds to a certain temperature internally for a reason , that is to kill all of that stuff . Really , the truth of the matter is that there are far higher risks in washing the bird and spreading all of those juices all over your sink ( thus contaminating the sink and possibly some work surfaces ) . There is no increase in flavour , there is no practical reason to bother . Professionally , it is not done . However , having said that , the one time I do rinse and pat dry is when I am applying a rub . It ensures that the chicken is dry and I can effectively rub , instead of the rub turning to a paste .
If your carrots are going soft after just a few days , you 're not storing them properly . Mine keep for weeks and weeks . I leave them in the plastic bag , and keep that in one of the vegetable drawers in my fridge . How are you storing yours ? A rubbery soft carrot is n't bad for you , it just is n't very pleasant . A slimy carrot is bad for you , do n't eat it .
Yes , the freshness is the factor . In the US eggs are sold in three grades : AA , A , and B ( rare ) . The grading is based primarily on age . AA are the freshest , and B the oldest . Here is a diagram depicting the internals of an egg : The characteristics of the freshest eggs are : A large thick albumen ( white ) A small thin albumen A sturdy thick chalaze A small air space A sturdy round yolk when lying flat As the egg ages the following things happen : Thick albumen breaks down , getting smaller Thin albumen gets larger Chalazae degrades getting thinner and weaker Air space increases Yolk membrane weakens , when cracked it lies flatter Embryo may become visible as a red speck As a result of the weakening membrane the yolk is indeed easier to break . Michael 's suggestion to use your fingers to separate the eggs is spot on . The edge of an egg shell is a little too risky for reliable separation of eggs .
Well , sometimes eggs have non-visible ( or non-visible without candling - shining a very bright light into the egg and looking at the light coming out of the egg ) cracks . That would be one possible cause - the crack pre-existed . Even if it was not cracked when graded , cracks both visible and invisible are possible in the distribution process . Getting cracked from moving around in the pot is possible , depending on how hard you boil them . If actually boiling them I 'd suggest a simmer , but in fact I do n't suggest that at all - just boil the pot of water , lower eggs in with a spoon , turn the heat off and cover - yank when they suit your concept of " done " ( if hard boiled , 20-30 minutes by this method . ) " Coddling " is sometimes used to describe this , though it 's also used to describe cooking ( without shell , and possibly with added ingredients ) in a specialized ceramic container ( an egg coddler . ) Anyway , it greatly reduces the odds of cracking via " rattling around in the pot " ( though not why I do it that way ; I do it because it appears , observationally , to reduce my incidence of overcooking the yolk and making it nasty . )
Reaching back to my time in culinary school at Johnson &amp; Wales University in Providence , RI : The style of hat originated in the Greek orthodox monastaries during the middle ages where chefs ( often taking refuge with other educated members of society ) would distinguish themselves from the monks by wearing a white hat ( <URL> ) . The early chef hats were slightly elevated but not as tall as they eventually became . Marie Antoine Careme ( commonly called " Chef of Kings and King of Chefs " ) is credited as the father of classical french cuisine for the development of mother sauces and standard garniture and classification of terminology used in kitchens . He 's also credited with much of the organization and division of labor in kitchens still used today . To designate role and stature in the kitchen he had his cooks wear hats of various height . His being the tallest designated him as the Head or Executive Chef . Traditionally it is said that the now traditional pleats indicate the number of ways that the chef wearing the hat can prepare an egg ( of course this predates the disposable paper hats we now use ) . 100 pleats is considered to be the " ultimate " number to be desired . However as a chef with 25 years experience in commercial kitchens , I 'd be hard pressed to name 100 ways ( without including eggs as an ingredient in recipes ) to prepare an egg .
Water is a great solvent for polar molecules . Sugar , table salt , and other small polar molecules are water soluble . When you put them into water , you get a sugar resp . salt solution . Other molecules are not soluble in water . Most organic molecules with a carbohydrate tail are insoluble ( unless they have a strongly polar active group , like the shorter alcohols ) . Starch and cellulose are not water soluble . Most plant matter is made mainly from starch and cellulose . ( The exception are fruits , which can have more fructose than starch , but still lots of cellulose ) . When you put non-soluble powder into water , you are not making a solution . You are making a colloid known as sol ( solids dispersed in a liquid ) . If you wet salt , the water will dissolve the first layer , and the second layer will be exposed . If you wet a random non-soluble powder , the water will have to wash away the first layer before it reaches the second layer , so it is hard to make the suspension without vigorous stirring . There are some special molecules which absorb water and swell . Starch , some proteins ( gelatin ) and some polysaccharides ( xanthan gum ) are common such molecules in the kitchen . When you wet them , the water gets absorbed by the first layer . This changes the viscosity of the layer , making it thick and clingy . This forms a clump . In the core are the dry layers of powder . They are held together by a bubble of the water-swelled substance . Outside of this bubble is the water . It ca n't wash away the bubble , because it is so viscous , it does n't flow into the water . And the bubble protects the core of the clump from contact with water . This happens with starchy powders like flour , or also real cocoa powder . Tea powder is mostly dried cellulose , so it is also hard to dissolve . You mention cocoa as easily solved in water . In fact , cocoa is very hard to dissolve , so I think you are speaking of a cocoa flavored drink . A cocoa flavored drink is a mixture of dextrose , cocoa powder , and other things ( but mostly dextrose ) . In such a mixed powder , the water dissolves the soluble molecules ( the dextrose ) , and the insoluble particles ( the cocoa powder ) which were suspended in the dextrose are now suspended in the water . No neighbouring cocoa particles to cling to . So , no clumps , but an instantly homogenous drink .
The key is to use a sawing motion with the peeler . Top and tail the pepper , cut it in half or quarters , remove the seeds and pith , then take a peeler ( one like this ) : and start peeling , wiggling the peeler side to side , ' sawing ' the skin off the flesh .
Perhaps I 'm stating the obvious , but is your oven rack perfectly level ? Muffin mix initially has low enough viscosity that it can be influenced by gravity as it gradually rises . Even a small inclination of the tray/rack is likely to cause this .
Well , you 're definitely right . Onions cooked at a high temperature act differently than ones cooked at a low temperature , per " the bible " aka On Food and Cooking . However , it does n't go in to much of an explanation as to why . Probably the most relevant aspects of what is in there are : When onions and their relatives are heated , the various sulfur compounds react with each other and with other substances to produce a range of characteristic flavor molecules . The cooking method , temperature and medium strongly affect the flavor balance . Baking , drying , and microwaving tend to generate trisulfides , the characteristic notes of overcooked cabbage . Cooking at high temperatures in fat produces more volatiles and a stronger flavor than do other techniques . <URL> Since a low temperature produces less volatiles , I assume that the natural sugars of the onion shine through instead . It 's probably also important to understand where the oniony flavor comes from . The spice , as you describe it , is the onions natural defense mechanism . However , it does n't exist defacto in the onion , but is rather the result of a chemical reaction . The onion stores very reactive sulfur in the cell fluid , and a seperate trigger mechanism in a storage vacuole . When you cut / crush / cook / peel the onion , you break the vacuole and the enzyme and sulfur cause a chemical reaction giving off the spice . <URL> &amp; <URL> )
The only difference between the two is that puree has a little more liquid . You should add more puree than the recipe calls for paste to compensate for it being more dilute . In some recipes , the extra liquid could be a problem , however , I do n't think it will make any difference in pad thai in the quantities that it is used .
There are a couple of things that jump out at me : 170 F ( 77 C ) - This is overkill for ground beef . The USDA guidelines recommend 160 F ( 71 C ) . Venting holes - This is unnecessary . There is no need to " vent " a hamburger . What you 're doing is creating holes for the juices to flow out of and get vaporized on the pan . This is likely a significant source of the smoking you describe . Keep those juices in ! I 'm not familiar with electric stoves , so I 'm not sure if 6/8 is too hot or not , but it might be . I cook my burgers on a gas stove at medium-high flame and generally do 5 mins per side for a medium burger ( I grind my own beef ) . My burgers are about an 3/4 " - 1 " thick too . So you might have your stove too hot , try turning it down a smidge . Update I want to clarify regarding the " blood " you are worried about . It 's a common misconception that the red liquid packaged with beef is blood . It 's not . Beef is drained of virtually all blood when it is slaughtered . Beef is 75 % water , so the liquid you see is mostly water and the pink hue comes from the iron &amp; oxygen binding protein <URL> which exists in muscle tissue . When cooking , the juices you are releasing are taking a lot of the flavor with them . This liquid is a combination of liquified fat , water , and proteins . You can verify this at the <URL> site for beef . Another common misconception is that a completely grey-brown interior indicates well done . According to the USDA , 25 % of burgers turn brown before being fully cooked ; this can happen as low as 135 F ( 57 C ) . The inverse is true as well , some beef can be cooked to the USDA recommended safe temperature 160 F ( 71 C ) and still retain some light pinkness in the center . If your concern is merely safety , cooking the beef to an interior temperature of 160 F is sufficient , regardless of it 's hue . If you you 're cooking it beyond that just because you do n't like the sight of pink meat , well you 're overcooking your burgers and doing yourself a bit of injustice . :)
end question
start question
What temperatures should I keep my refrigerator and freezer set at ?
Daniel is spot-on with <URL> . I 'll elaborate on it a bit here . As indicated by his bottled water in the freezer trick , a full freezer is a happy freezer . The same applies to the refrigerator too . While I would n't put random bottles of water throughout my refrigerator , it 's important to know that the fuller your refrigerator is , the more it holds its temperature when opening/closing , and the less energy you 'll use . However , you do n't want to jam pack it so full that there is n't any airflow around your stuff , because this can hamper the cooling efficiency as well . The ideal refrigerator temperature is 35 ° F ( 1.6 ° C ) . You 're not hugging the danger zone like you would be at 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) , and you 're distancing yourself sufficiently from 32 ° F ( 0 ° C ) that you do n't freeze half the stuff in your refrigerator . That said , the temperature within your fridge can vary rather significantly with normal usage . The coldest parts of your refrigerator are the back , and the bottom . The back because the cooling element is there , and the bottom because warm air rises . If items you do n't want frosty are getting frosty , then move them away from the back of the fridge . I would avoid putting items in the door of your fridge that are particularly sensitive to spoilage . The items in the door of your fridge can easily get as high as 59 ° F ( 15 ° C ) , and do so often . Putting milk and eggs in your door will significantly decrease their shelf life . Butter is OK in the little covered section in the door , because the door actually helps keep it 's temperature a little better . You also generally do n't want rock solid frozen butter . So , put your meats on the bottom shelf in the back , your condiments ( mayo , ketchup , mustard , etc. ) in the door , and put everything else where it fits .
I mix dough in my kitchenAide all the time , and this happens all the time , so through the process I check the consistency and dryness and I 've developed a feel for the " just right formula " , but being ADHD I do n't go in with precise measurements each time , but that would be a good idea once perfection is found . So anywho , I take a strong spatula from time to time and cut it of the hook , to give it a nice restart with hook on outside of dough ball . but your dough needs to be dry enough that it is cleaning itself off the bowl and it will the hook too . It 's designed to find that perfect balance so that it starts wet and sticky and then as the gluten starts to web it becomes self cleaning , and the kneading is drying it a little or maybe the material is absorbing the liquid , either way it goes from dry to wet . Another thing I do if the hook is wrapped in dough instead of working against the sides , I briefly turn up the speed and that will throw the dough to the sides and sometimes clean it .
Onions have a lot of sugar in them . All they want in the world is to burn and fill your kitchen with oniony smoke . The solution , as with all things heavy in sugar , is to turn down the heat and stir frequently . That said - if your olive oil was extra virgin then it might have been your oil that started burning before the onions did .
A souffle by any other name will fall as quick . ( Sorry , I could n't resist ) . But this is absolutely normal , there is nothing in this recipe to support the structural integrity of cooling air bubbles . You can reduce the amount of rising , which will result in a smaller collapse . To do this , beat the mixture less ( prepare it by hand instead with a mixer to be sure ) and ensure slower , more even heating in the oven . But of course , the collapse will occur . There is some advice floating around which is supposed to reduce the falling rate of souffles . You could try following it even if your recipe does n't involve whipping the eggwhites . It involves things like not crowding the oven and carefully buttering the form , usually with layers of butter and sugar ( or parmesan for savory souffles ) . It wo n't hurt to use them . But do n't expect a risen pudding after it has cooled . Update . I read Charlotte Farley 's answer and thought that it would be great if it works . I had a hunch that it might not , but it would be so awesome if it helps ! So I made the experiment . I made the bread pudding exactly per the recipe given here . I did n't separate the eggs , but took care to whip them for a long time before adding the milk , to ensure a good rise . I baked it in silicon muffin cups , exactly 5 gram of bread and 45 gram of egg mixture per cup . After 45 min at 150 ° C , I quickly removed three cups from the oven and left the remaining three cups there for another 45 min . As a control , I used a simple cheese souffle ( basically a mornay sauche with whipped egg whites ) and repeated the procedures , using 50 g mixture per cup and baking for 20 min at 175 ° C . The results : These are the bread puddings . The directly removed are in the lower row , the ones which remained in the oven are in the upper row . I did n't measure them , but they are nearly the same height . In the oven , all had risen maybe 1 cm over the cup edges , so they all lost ~ 50 % of their oven height . The first group collapsed the second they were out of the oven , the others deflated slowly in the oven , but were already low when I took them out . I weighed both groups after cooling . The " direct from the oven group " weighed 116 g , or 11.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . The " left in oven group " weighed 101 g , or 16.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . When I tried them , I liked the moister ones better , but both groups were OK . Neither was unacceptably dry or egg-white-rubbery . These are the cheese soufflés . They rose more in the oven , to maybe 2.5-3 cm above the cup edges . Again , directly removed ones are in the bottom row , the oven cooled ones are in the top row . There is no visible difference , they all seem deflated to the same size . The weight results are similar as in the bread pudding case : 122 g for the three directly removed souffles , 109 g for the oven cooled ones . Again , I felt that the moister ones tasted better , but this could be a subjective preference . I would n't consider the oven-cooled ones " bad " on their own . Conclusion : The slow oven cooling does n't work :( Estimated 5000 calories worth of egg dishes plus a small package of American bread ( opened ) available for free , collect in person only .
Meat is pounded as a mechanical means of tenderizing by damaging the connective tissues . It also makes the meat thinner and flatter , which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly . Pound tougher meats ( cheaper steaks ) , and meats of uneven thickness ( chicken breasts ) . Avoid pounding the bones in the meat . You do n't want little pieces of bone chipping off into meal . Do n't pound already tender pieces ( premium cuts , dry aged steaks ) . Think tenderize , not pulverize . You should not be making any holes in it . If you 're going to marinate , do that after pounding . Wrapping the meat in wax paper first will help prevent a big mess . Do both sides of the meat .
My friend makes coconut crusts all the time and she bakes them at 350 degrees . But AllRecipes.com bakes their crust at 325 degrees for 15 minutes .
It 's a matter of taste . Since your durian is already cut , as it continues to ripen ( which it will , although much more slowly than uncut fruit ) it is also rotting/fermenting ( which is desired by many ) . You do n't say where you are from , but durian season is long over in the northern hemisphere . Most durian sold in the US this time of year has been frozen . Previously frozen durian rots more rapidly and ripens less rapidly than fruit that has n't been frozen , some sources say that previously frozen durian wo n't ripen at all , only mature ( rot ) . So the bottom line for you is that you should taste your durian every 12 hours or so and put it in the freezer ( or consume it ) when it has matured to your liking . The ripening ( not rotting ) of durian is accelerated by the ethylene it produces . Since sources are not in complete agreement concerning additional ripening of previously frozen durian , keeping the pieces in a bag with ethylene may help . Most of the ethylene is produced by the husk , not the flesh of the fruit . If your fruit still has the husk , it is worthwhile to keep it in a closed bag for that reason . Whether or not the Durian still has the husk , it would n't hurt to add an apple to the bag for more ethylene . If you can , store your durian with an apple in a few separate bags , so that " tasting you go " does n't release all of the ethylene available to all of the durian . Some durian lovers go as far as to keep ripe , cut durian on the counter ; rotting away ( and producing alcohol ) for 3-4 weeks . Others prefer durian under-ripe and freshly cut .
An avocado will keep a few days in the refrigerator after it has been cut . The cut portion will turn brown/black due to oxidation , you can just cut that off , it is not harmful . From <URL> to keep the avocado from discoloring sprinkle it with lemon/lime juice or vinegar and wrap tightly in plastic wrap or place in an airtight container . From <URL> storing a cut avocado with a piece of cut onion in an airtight container will stop the oxidation . I do n't know why this is , but I suspect that it has to do with the sulfur compounds that the onion releases . This is the same sulfur that makes you cry when you chop onions , but it is also used as a preservative . The onion 's smell and taste do n't seem to transfer to the avocado , as far as I can tell . But I 'm not overly sensitive to onions , so you may want to check this out first if you are . When not to use , from WebMD if your avocado 's flesh has become very dark or the flesh has become stringy you should avoid eating it , particularly if there is any sign of mold . Avocados have a very high fat content , so they oxidize and become rancid very quickly at room temperature and will need to be thrown away .
Bitterness can come from underripe fruit ( although a lot of times they 'll just be sour or less flavorful ) , lack of juice is usually something that has been stored too long and dried out . A ripe mandarin or clementine should be firm but not hard with a good , bright citrusy fragrance . Rubbing your finger on the skin should impart some citrus oil ( unless it 's waxed of coated ... ) I think usually the smell is the best guideline for flavor , although I have still sometimes had a fruit that smells great and tastes pretty bland . But I think usually if they are really fragrant that 's a good sign . The skin should be somewhat loose-feeling . If the skin is tight on the fruit , it is either not ripe or it is drying out ( or it 's not a mandarin or clementine ) . Do n't squeeze the fruit and bruise it , but when you pick it up , there should be a bit of give in the skin . Mandarins and clementines have very thin skins , but these still have the sort of spongy texture of other citrus . Because they are thin , they dry out quickly . It 's hard to describe what drying citrus skin feels like - progressively rougher and harder than fresh , eventually turning into a crisp and brittle almost stony layer . I 'm sure you would notice far before it gets to that stage , but it 's not going to happen overnight . ( But the fruit should n't be squishy or have soft spots , that is generally spoilage or damage . ) It should not feel dry and hard . A juicy citrus will feel heavy for its size , although for really small ones that 's kind of hard to judge . One more thing to note , though , is that most of the time , the whole batch of whatever type of fruit at the grocery store or at a particular market stall at any given time will very likely come from the same source . While there might be some better and some worse ones , overall they 'll probably be pretty similar , unless you can clearly see that some are older or from a different source . If you 're not sure about a batch , just buy a couple and then get more after you see that they 're good . ( And if you find some great ones , buy a lot and freeze some for juice for later . )
Technique Always use a cutting surface made for a knife , particularly a wooden chopping board/block . Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal , glass , or stone ; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives . Also avoid cutting frozen items , for the same reason . Use the dull end ( " top " ) of the knife for scraping food off surfaces , or use a scraper or spatula instead . Knives are meant to cut straight , along the edge ; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly . Do not use more force than necessary . A sharp knife should cut with very little effort . The more pressure you apply , the faster it will dull . Use a <URL> for bones or other very hard foods . General-purpose chef 's knives or smaller knives are n't appropriate for this task , and may chip or even snap . General Care Wash or rinse knives promptly after use . The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal ( fruits , onions , etc. ) . Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel . Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune . This goes for all metal but especially knives , because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut . Air-drying may also leave you with stains or " spots " due to salts and other trace minerals in the water . Store knives in a dry , open area , away from other objects , to avoid moisture build-up , impacts , and secondary rust . <URL> . A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts , corrosion , and warping of the wooden handle/joint . Quality knives should be hand-washed . Honing Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife . You will need an <URL> ( sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel ) , which can be bought inexpensively . Note that <URL> ; the best value tends to be in the $ 30 ( USD ) range . Honing is not the same as sharpening . Honing helps to align the existing edge , which becomes skewed or " curled " after regular use . It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged , e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the " General Care " advice above . To hone a knife : Keep the honing steel vertical . Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel . Stroke downward and towards yourself . Alternate strokes , and do an equal number of times on both sides . Here is a <URL> . Sharpening <URL> involves a whetstone ( AKA <URL> ) and is an art unto itself . <URL> , however , the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional . If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife 's edge - and if it 's been well-maintained , this should take several weeks or months - then it 's time to get the knife sharpened . An alternative to professional sharpening ( or learning to use a whetstone ) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener , such as the <URL> . This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening , but it is very convenient and fast . Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives . This may still be true of the cheaper , single-stage sharpeners , because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat . However , the more modern , higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly , have precise angle control , and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process ( grinding , steeling , stropping ) . The " grinding " stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged , and will actually create a new edge . If your knife is in reasonable shape , then it 's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you do n't grind too much . ( Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance ) . Yet another option , if you 're on a tight budget , is to <URL> . Follow the link for additional information on technique , grit , and tutorials .
I think that washing pre-washed greens is an issue of emotional security , if you do n't trust the purveyor . As the <URL> : Many pre-cut , bagged , or packaged produce items like lettuce are pre-washed and ready-to-eat . If so , it will be stated on the packaging . If the package indicates that the contents are pre-washed and ready-to-eat , you can use the produce without further washing . It certainly does no harm , but you then have to also dry them for most uses , so it is more work , and kind of redundant : you have paid a premium price to buy the greens already washed . If you are going to wash them yourself , why not buy less expensive produce , and perhaps have more control over what goes into your mix ?
I 'll assume that you 're talking about pure maple syrup in a glass container ; if it 's that adulterated pancake syrup then it 's probably riddled with preservatives , so any advice here does n't apply . Pure maple syrup can and will grow mold on the surface if left in a cupboard . There are <URL> of this happening , and although several of those people say that it 's OK to simply strain the mold and re-boil the maple syrup , ( a ) I would n't chance it , and ( b ) that process is hardly any more convenient than simply taking it out of the refrigerator a half-hour earlier and letting it come up to room temperature . Maple syrup should be stored in the refrigerator . It does n't have to be , and it will probably take at least a year for it to grow any mold if left in the pantry . But it will last longer in the refrigerator ; I 've seen refrigerated jars 3 + years old without any mold .
Restaurants have massive fans . Commercial deep fryers have temperature control . Example temperature control unit : <URL> And massive heating elements ( notice 4 temperature controls ) : <URL> Massive heating elements allows for even delivery of heat . When you drop frozen fish it has to kick out some heat but it is careful not to get too hot via temperature control . The temperature gradient alone causes good mixing . When you heat fresh oil you can see it stirring around . If your oil is burning and producing smoke then your deep-fryer is too hot . Even most home fryers have temperature control . Or you are possibly using the wrong oil . A cheaper home unit will have a smaller heating unit so it will have more trouble with maintaining a constant temperature but a temperature controller near the heating element should prevent any oil from burning .
Clarified butter is rather simple to make . It 's simply butter that has had the milk solids and water removed . It does last longer than regular butter , and can be stored for several weeks in the refrigerator . It also has a higher smoke point than regular butter , so you can use it when higher temperatures are called for without it smoking or burning . Slowly melt your butter and let it sit for a bit to separate Skim off the foam from the top Gently pour the butter off of the milk solids which have settled You 'll be left with about 75 % of what you started with . I 'm not sure what you mean by huge batch , but I usually make about a sticks worth at a time , as needed .
You could try wine coolers * . Wine likes temperatures around 50F , so they should all be around the temperature you want , and the nicer ones will have accurate thermostats too . Mini-fridges could work - if their warmest temperature setting is warm enough . But be careful : they tend to have very bad circulation . On normal fridge temperature settings , a lot of them range from frozen on one end to too warm on the other end . If you set it warmer , you might end up with a range from too cold to room temperature . If all you 're storing in it is roots , this is totally fine , but it could cause problems if anything is sensitive . So your mileage may vary , and it can be tough to tell without buying and trying . That said , you do n't want temperatures that cold for tomatoes . Storing them at room temperature is fine and generally recommended , unless your room temperature is excessively hot . ( For example , Harold McGee says this in On Food and Cooking , and that temperatures below 55F will mess with the texture . ) Most herbs also do pretty well in the refrigerator , wrapped loosely with paper towels inside an open bag . Things like basil that like warm weather do better at room temperature , with cut ends in water , like flowers . ( You can also do this in the fridge , if you 're having problems with them drying out too much - you 'll want to cover the " bouquet " loosely with a bag still . ) See <URL> for more . The things that you might want to store at intermediate temperatures are root vegetables - this is why they were traditionally <URL> ( like wine ) . Potatoes , for example , have an ideal storage temperature around 45-50F . But it 's not a huge concern ; their storage lifetime is pretty long at room temperature . Unless you find them sprouting before you use them , there 's not much to worry about ! * Note that I said wine cooler not wine cellar - in general the ones marketed as cellars are more expensive , but there are ones marketed as coolers that are back down closer to the minifridge price range . Rumtscho 's additional suggestion of drink refrigerators is probably good too - though quickly searching , I did n't find ones that were any cheaper than the cheap wine coolers .
Once my starter was established ( started with organic whole wheat flour ) I 've been feeding it with unbleached AP flour ( King Arthur ) and that 's worked fine . I do this simply because it 's the flour I buy in large quantities to stock my pantry , and so it 's generally the cheapest flour I have on hand . If you want to " switch over " to a different flour you can always scoop out a bit of starter a couple days before you bake , and feed it with the different flour . Start with a small amount so you do n't have to throw any away ; just double the volume with each feeding . I do n't usually bother , though .
Let the dough rest in the bowl for a while after mixing . Time will not only improve the flavor ( insert autolyse proselytism here ) but will also give the flour time to hydrate , making the dough somewhat easier to handle . Dough will become less sticky as you work it -- witness the way dough kneaded in a mixer or food processor initially sticks to the sides but eventually forms a ball and leaves the bowl clean . So , one option is to work it a bit with a mixer first , or just with a wooden spoon in the bowl . Anil 's suggestion to oil your hands is a good one . If the kind of dough you 're making allows it , add some oil or butter to the dough during mixing , too . Flour helps , of course . Instead of trying to coat your hands in flour , throw a bit on the kneading surface and on the top of the dough . For very sticky dough , a <URL> can help you scrape the dough off the surface and fold it over onto itself until it becomes easier to handle . This is easiest if you 're working on a hard , smooth kneading surface like marble .
100 ° C for 7 hours sounds just about perfect . The meat will be meltingly tender by then . In fact I think you could go even lower on the temperature if you like , say 80 ° C or 90 ° C. Of course , if you want to be absolutely sure , check with the thermometer , but unless you know that your oven is unreliable or you happen to be in possession of the largest pig shoulder in the world I am 100 % sure it will be more than done in 7 hours on 100 ° C. Good luck !
Blowing out happens because the extra expansion of the bread in the oven , called oven spring , expands further than the skin of the bread can accommodate . The protein sheets that make up risen bread can toughen when they dry out . When the bread is introduced to the sudden high heat of the oven the water and alcohol vaporizes , filling the loaf with gas . If the outer gluten sheets were allowed to toughen or if the spring is just to great then the sheets have to tear to make room . The tear will happen wherever the sheets are weakest . This seems to be usually in the ugliest spot possible for a blowout . It would be possible to reduce the spring by baking at a lower temperature but the spring is desirable and results in a lighter texture . The solution must come , therefore , in softening the gluten or controlling the expansion . Fat softens bread so this problem happens mostly with lean doughs . One possible solution for some breads is to increase the amount of fat in the dough . Keeping the surface of the dough moist will also help . Keep the dough covered while it is proofing and spraying it with water when it goes in the oven , and , if possible , having a humid environment in the oven will keep the proteins from drying out . The traditional solution with lean doughs is to allow the blowout to occur but control the direction . In this way the loaf can be both light and attractive . Slashing the surface of the loaf releases some of the pressure and allows the baker to have some control over the direction of expansion .
For most vegetables , it is very difficult , if not impossible , to retain their quality once they have been cut . Your efforts would be much better spent either improving your cutting/chopping proficiency or in cooking entire meals ahead of time . Also , you could prepare components , such as sauteed onions or peppers , and maintain relatively high-quality versions of those . Meat is a different story . You can do preparations in advance , and freeze individual portions for later use without degrading quality . The best way to avoid freezer burn is to have a very cold freezer ( ironically , easing the cooling settings on your freezer was having the opposite of your desired effect ) , and to prevent your food from coming in contact with air . You can use a freezer bag for each food item , making sure you squeeze all the air out of it first . However , if you are really serious about this , you would be well-served by investing in a vacuum sealer . Air is the big enemy here , so mechanically removing air from the system will greatly extend freezer life .
end question
start question
Why is black tea sold in crumbled form ?
Whole leaf black tea is available , but because it has to be processed by hand it is expensive . Twinings whole leaf black tea is roughly 50 cents per teabag as opposed to the equivalent processed tea bags at about 8 cents . To make black tea , the leaves are wilted and processed by various methods - none of the mechanical methods will produce whole leaf tea .
White , green , oolong , and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds , the only difference is how they are processed . You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties . Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps , but in rough order of least-to-most processed : White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized , meaning it retains the natural antioxidants , but does not develop as much flavor , color , or caffeine . Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic . ( Chinese Silver needle white tea ) Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation , halted by additional pan-frying ( Chinese teas ) or steaming ( Japanese ) steps . The additional processing brings out more flavor , and allows for caffeine to develop , at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants . Characteristic flavors are grassy , vegetal , and earthy , with sweet notes . ( Japanese Sencha ) Oolong tea gets partial fermentation , and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors . Oolong can range in color from dark green to black . The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery &amp; earthy flavors . Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them . It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea . Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess : ( light oolong ) Black Oolong : ( Wu Yi ) Black tea is fully fermented , which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins . It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine , but the least antioxidants . ( Chinese keemun ) Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented , meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation . Microorganisms work on the tea , changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses . Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions ( 10-15 years being ideal ) , but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used . Pu-erh develops a richer , more complex flavor , and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties . Before post-fermentation , it may resemble a white , green , or oolong tea , but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors , giving a unique character . Pu-er Cake Rooibos , sometimes called red tea , is made from another plant entirely , Aspalathus linearis . It is a traditional South African infusion , prepared like a black tea but without caffeine . There are two varieties , green and red . Green is un-oxidized , where red is oxidized . Rooibos is characterized by a sweet , woody/malty flavor . Health-wise , it is a source of anti-oxidants , may aid in digestion , and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies . Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis , whose leaves are steeped like tea . It is generally toasted in processing , and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee . Despite its caffeine , mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles , so you do n't get jitters , and it also helps control appetite . The flavor is vegetal and herbal , and can be bitter if brewed hot . Although it contains antioxidants , this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting , and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates . Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs , fruits , spices , and flowers which are steeped like teas , but do not contain tea leaves . Generally , the ingredients are dried , although fresh ingredients can be used too . To confuse matters further , black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them , giving a similar result .
Have you tried using a marshmallow recipe that is only made from gelatin and cooked sugar syrup ( sugar , water , and light corn syrup to soft ball stage , 240 degrees F ) ? I have made various piped marshmallows that will hold swirly shapes using this type of marshmallow recipe . It is a bit more stable than the egg based recipes . The most important thing is to make sure that the marshmallow mixture is whipped to a nice fluffy , shiny , smooth stage ( about 7-10 minutes on high speed ) and piped very quickly into whatever form you want before it sets up using a large round tip . Timing is of utmost importance here and you may lose some marshmallow during this process at home . I would also recommend piping onto a silpat ( silicone ) lined sheet tray or a piece of wax paper that has been lightly dusted with a mixture of cornstarch and confectioner 's sugar .
Open it up . If it 's soft and pale brown or darker inside too , it 's overripe and no longer good for eating straight ; however , it can be used in baking , banana bread , or smoothies . Once it 's black , the banana is garbage .
The answer to your first question is basically the answer to your second question with associated risk analysis ( i.e. , if yes , is it worth it ? ) . So to answer your second question , yes it does seem likely that most plastic containers <URL> under some conditions . Furthermore , many of the compounds that are released from plastics have not been fully tested , so the absence of specific information on their risk is not evidence of an absence of risk . Since it does appear that these plastics can release harmful compounds under certain conditions then the answer to your first question of is it safe , boils down to " are you replicating an environment where enough endocrine mimics are released to cause harm ? " Given the lack of research on all of the ways in which plastics leach and the fact that there is <URL> , I personally would conclude that the risk exceeds the inconvenience of having to find a non-plastic container to transport your tea .
TFD 's answer is true : the most likely change is the reduction in some astringent flavors . I would just add that people have been brewing black tea for iced tea for many years at or near room temperature ( e.g. , the traditional " sun tea " method ) , or even in the refrigerator ( " cold-brewed " tea ) . The flavor notes which come out are different , but a lot of people still find the tea produced to be acceptable or even preferable to " hot-brewed " tea . Granted , these processes are used mostly for tea meant to be consumed at cooler temperatures . But my point is that those who insist that black tea must be brewed as close to 100C as possible are just brewing one possible " version " of tea from those leaves . In my own experiments , I 've found that certain black teas taste good when brewed at lower temperatures for a long time , though others end up " unbalanced " in some way . ( Sometimes , they simply taste " weaker " for some reason , even when still brewed longer to take into account the lower temperature . Sometimes this can be fixed by adding more tea leaves per cup ; other times this still creates an imbalance . ) I could cite a number of studies which show the various amounts of certain chemical components in tea and how fast they dissolve at various temperatures . But those really wo n't take into account the balance of individual flavor components in a particular black tea . In this case , I think it 's really a matter of personal judgment to see whether your particular tea tastes fine to you brewed at a lower temperature .
Hojicha is a green tea which is made from bancha , a low grade green tea , and cooked slightly ; this very inexpensive green tea often comes out brown because it is discolored by oxidation . Other than this variety , and some very stale bancha , I ca n't think of a Japanese green tea that comes out brown . Some stale kukicha might come out brown , and low quality genmaicha made with poor quality kukicha could be brownish from the combination of excess oxidation and the toasted rice . Most of the non-Japanese green teas I 've seen sold as " green tea " and some lower quality teabags marked as " sencha " are broken down tea leaves that can easily oxidize in the packaging to the point where they are , at best , yellowish . However , if you use even a moderate quality sencha , and it is n't stale , it should come out green . Most good quality kukicha and genmaicha will at least come out greenish-yellow . Since most Japanese restaurants use a fairly inexpensive second-harvest sencha , I imagine you 're either buying hojicha or simply using a very stale , low-quality sencha . Chinese green teas are sometimes slightly yellow , but if they 're actually yielding a brown brew , they , too are either stale or are simply mislabeled oolong . I used to sell a fair amount of green tea when I ran a small scale import business . I do recall even matcha products turning brown after being exposed to excessive sunlight ; one of the bakeries I know was constantly running into issues with their matcha pound cake slices on sunny days , especially those pieces in the front of their pastry case . So it 's reasonably possible you simply have tea which has been stored improperly ; you 're best off with a nitrogen flushed tea and it should be used within about 6 months of opening the sealed package . If your tea comes unsealed , it probably is n't in very good shape to begin with . In any event , my recommendation is to try a first-harvest high-mountain grown sencha that is sold in nitrogen-flushed aluminum packages . Depending on the style , the brewed color will be either very green or slightly yellowish if brewed in the typical way . You can either do a very brief , several second infusion at near-boiling , or a longer infusion at around 80 celsius . I like it both ways . Gyokuro , if you can afford it , is extraordinarily green , but is unlikely to be served at a restaurant without an additional charge ( it 's essentially the same leaves used to make matcha , except rolled instead of being milled ) .
Harvest time can have a large effect on the quality of the tea . First off , whether it was the first harvest of the year or a later one will greatly change the character of the tea . The dates can also be used similar to the vintage dates of wine . If you got a tea from a specific region and know the date of the harvest , if you find another tea from the same region and same date , it will have been grown under similar conditions . Also , since black and oolong teas have been oxidized , the oxidation process will continue to some extent as the tea ages , further changing the flavor . The date can be used to predict freshness , and also to find a tea that suits your tastes better ( for instance , I know that I like many black teas better after they have aged for a year or two ) .
The official answer from your health department is no , it 's not safe . After four hours at room temperature , you have to pitch it . That standard is a little on the paranoid side . Which is appropriate , since they have to protect people for whom a little salmonella is potentially life-threatening ( the infirm , babies , the elderly , etc. ) If you 're young and healthy , the odds are it will do you no harm whatsoever . Even a glass of milk out overnight is merely going to be sour rather than toxic . So , it 's up to you . I 'd say it 's a cup of tea and it will taste better if you make a fresh one , even if the risk to your health is small-but-not-zero .
Oil is dry heat because oil contains no water . Wine does . The " moist " in moist heat really means water . In moist heat cooking , water acts as a solvent and actually dissolves much of the solid matter in the food - hence the reason why steaming and boiling tend to make food rather soft or even soggy . Oil , on the other hand , is very rarely a solvent . There are certain food compounds that are fat-soluble , but most are water-soluble and oil , being <URL> , actually blocks any contact with water , thus preventing any dissolution , and generally making the food crispier as well as promoting the <URL> ( which can only occur with dry heat , due to the low boiling point of water ) . It may seem counterintuitive , but oil is n't wet . It just looks that way .
This probably refers to whole eggs mostly ... A microwave can boil water very rapidly , and a tight but fragile container like a whole egg will violently rupture if such rapid boiling happens inside it , because the overpressure inside it is already significant when the shell finally breaks . Here is a <URL> showing an experiment with ca. 180 eggs in a microwave oven , which after a minute or two rupture simultaneously and with enough force to blow the oven open , with debris being propelled several meters .
If you just want to change the color - just some <URL> should be fine . If you ca n't find it in a store locally , you can always see if a bakery that does cakes will give you just a tiny bit or if they 'll blend a few colors to make a dark gray .
If it 's " green tea powder " it 's probably <URL> . Matcha is finely ground powder of specially grown and processed green tea . It 's special in two aspects of farming and processing : The green tea plants for matcha are shade-grown for about three weeks before harvest , and the stems and veins are removed in processing . The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation , serving , and drinking of matcha . In modern times , matcha has also come to be used to flavour and dye foods such as mochi and soba noodles , green tea ice cream and a variety of wagashi ( Japanese confectionery ) . <URL> The drink you had in Thailand is probably an iced matcha shake of some sort , made with condensed milk . In Japan , the drink is served by itself as part of tea ceremonies and is opaque even without milk added to it . There 's a guide to how tea ceremonies work and the process of making tea <URL> , if you 're interested .
First off , the ISO standard is not intended to produce a good cup of tea . It is designed to produce a consistent one for taste testing , so that no tea manufacturer can claim that his tea was n't made " properly " . It 's title is " Tea -- Preparation of liquor for use in sensory tests " As for the actual tea making , yes , leaving the bag in longer will make a stronger cup of tea . The concentration of caffeine ( along with flavour molecules and everything else ) will slowly trend towards an equal concentration in the leaf and in the water . The longer you leave the tea bag/leaves in the water , the closer to equilibrium you will get . There are other factors that affect this , such as the temperature of the water , cut of the leaves , bag versus loose leaf and so on , but the trend is always towards equilibrium as time progresses . I 'm not sure where the upper limit of this lies , but I think that once the cup is cold there 's no point in it anyway . Thus , leaving the bag in for an hour is a bit much . I usually steep my tea for 3-6 minutes , depending on how strong I want it to be .
If you have 18 inch wide heavy duty foil , pull a square that is 18X18 , place your pan in the center of the foil and lift the edges of the foil up around the outside of the pan , effectively making a pan within a pan ( spring form inside the aluminum foil pan . If you only have 12 inch foil , pull two pieces of foil about 18 inches long and put them on top of each other . Along one if the long edges , fold both pieces over about 1/2 inch a few times , crimping each time . Open up the sheets which will create one large piece with a seam down the middle . Put the spring form pan in the middle like above . If your seam is tight it should work as well as the single piece of 18 inch foil .
You could try using arrowroot . This is a widely available alternative to cornstarch - it is used in cookery because it does n't turn liquids cloudy like cornstarch does . In your case , it might work better as it also has a more neutral flavour . Substitute 2 tbsps of arrowroot for 1 tbsp cornstarch , and make a slurry with cool water as you would cornstarch . One issue is that overheating can break down the arrowroot , preventing it from thickening , so you are probably better off adding it to the tea after removing it from the heat .
It 's not a standard . ' Antipasti ' ( before the meal ) would be the typical replacement for ' appetizers ' . Quite a few of the categories on the menu could be classified as antipasti : Olives Salumi Formagi As Catija points out , the items all seem to be vegetable dishes intended as a starter . In my opinion ( having taken courses on classification &amp; thesaurus design ) , the menu 's a bit of a mess . I suspect that it 's in part from mixing lunch , dinner &amp; bar menus , they have starters , salad &amp; soup courses , small plates ( which includes stuff from the starters ) , main dishes ... and even one category ( vegetariano ) which mixes both main &amp; side dishes . They 're also inconsistent on the text after the title ... sometimes it 's a translation ( Coppa Classic / Fragrant Spiced Pork ) or description of the item ( Taleggio / Cow 's Milk , Nutty , Aromatic , Semi-Soft ) , some list sides it comes with without translating the main ingredient ( Stracci di Grano Arso / Broccoli Rabe , Tomato , Onion , Garlic , Red Chili , &amp; E.V.O.O ) or ( Veal Osso Buco / Gremolata ) . ( Note that this says nothing about the food itself -- it might be excellent ... it 's just a confusing menu )
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
Of course you can use jaggery in all of these recipes or in any recipe in lieu of sugar , but like all substitutions , they may not be perfect or one to one . The outcome and flavor profile will be slightly different . Consider what jaggery is made of ( per the infamous wikipedia ) : Up to 50 % sucrose up to 20 % invert sugars moisture content of up to 20 % remainder made up of other insoluble matter such as wood ash , proteins and bagasse fibers The parts that are not sucrose are the parts that are interesting . How will they affect your recipe ? What adjustments should you make ? Invert sugars taste sweet , but are even more hydrophyllic than sucrose , and interfere with crystal formation of the sucrose . This may be an advantage or a disadvantage depending on the recipe . Candies dependant on sugar crystalization will be trickiest to manage . Moisture means water , you might have to reduce longer or reduce water content elsewhere in the recipe , or it could be a non-issue . Other content will lead to the unique flavor profile , which may be why you want to use it in the first place In regards to the specific foods you have mentioned : Gajar ka halwa -- You would have to adjust the ratios , but no reason it would not work based on how this dessert is described in the wikipedia article Barfi -- I do n't have any personal experience with barfi to know how much it depends on crystalization versus denaturing of the milk proteins for its texture -- you would have to experiment . The descriptions I have read sound like it is more about the milk . Ready made custard powder -- I do n't know what ingredients are in the " ready made custard powder " -- the result would certainly be safe . Assuming the custard powder contains proteins and starch which thicken the custard when you add it to milk or water , then I see no reason why the jaggery should not work , although the result may be somewhat less thickened . Milk tea - no issues other than the flavor profile Cake -- with appropriate adjustments ( mostly for the water content ) it should work fine , except possibly those made by the creaming method Note that everything I have written is based on the science , and internet descriptions of local food items I am not familiar with . You should also consult local recipe books , and find variations which use jaggery -- or the lack thereof . That should give you some idea what is common , and how recipes using jaggery vary from those that do n't for the same item .
A sausage stuffer , perhaps ? Your standard food mill attachment type more typically seen in a home kitchen : <URL> Unless you 're seeing some product I 've never met , I would not call that stuff " rolled in tubes " - I 'd call it a tube ( or log ) of dough , and I expect the filling process is VERY like a ( large , automated ) sausage stuffer , and involves no rolling at all . <URL> In making refrigerator cookies , one simply makes a log out of the dough , wraps it , and places it in the fridge to harden before slicing . The dough is not liquid to start with , so it does not pour , and can be shaped without a form . If your " dough " " pours " I 'm dubious about your recipe or method .
end question
start question
Should tamarind pulp go into Pad Thai sauce ?
It 's essential to get all the debris ( seeds , large fibrous bits , skins etc ) out of the pulp . I normally add a little hot water in a bowl with the block of pulp , be careful not to add too much or it 'll end up watery - better to add more as you go , wash your hands thoroughly and break the pulp up by hand . Then strain out the seeds etc and it 's ready to use . You can buy ready to use Tamarind puree in shops but it 's normally not a good . There 's more info on working with Tamarind pulp in the footnotes here ( as well as a good Pad Thai recipe ) <URL>
I would not recommend doing so . The technique you describe is known as <URL> , which as you might guess from the name is a <URL> in the French culinary tradition . It translates literally to " mount with butter " and is used to provide a rich , velvety mouthfeel to both white and brown sauces . By contrast , <URL> sauce originates in Japanese cuisine , which is a whole different tradition . Like Chinese cuisine and other east Asian cooking , Japanese cuisine does n't make use of much dairy , <URL> . Teriyaki sauce is generally a <URL> that gets its richness from a high proportion of sugar and can be thickened with cornstarch ( as seen in <URL> ) . You could try mounting a teriyaki sauce with butter , but my suspicion is that you might cause some of the sugar in the glaze to seize and crystallize by introducing cold butter ( as typically recommended when mounting ) and it would not be common in the culinary tradition that teriyaki comes to us from . So you can skip this step without causing any harm to your sauce or offense to any French or Japanese bystanders .
Perfect idea and great multi-use of your jam ! Your plan is perfect ... just create a nice sweet tart balance to your liking . If you want a little more texture you could plump up some golden or dark raisins by nuking them in the microwave before adding . Coriander seed is often used and provides a little texture contrast as well . A bit of ground allspice could be good as well .
A sausage stuffer , perhaps ? Your standard food mill attachment type more typically seen in a home kitchen : <URL> Unless you 're seeing some product I 've never met , I would not call that stuff " rolled in tubes " - I 'd call it a tube ( or log ) of dough , and I expect the filling process is VERY like a ( large , automated ) sausage stuffer , and involves no rolling at all . <URL> In making refrigerator cookies , one simply makes a log out of the dough , wraps it , and places it in the fridge to harden before slicing . The dough is not liquid to start with , so it does not pour , and can be shaped without a form . If your " dough " " pours " I 'm dubious about your recipe or method .
Always hot smoke pork . Unless you know what you 're doing . In which case you 'd know that . Look at <URL> for ideas on how to make a cheap home smoker that will work for you . In general , you need : a heat source ( hot plate works well ) container for wood chips/sawdust ( skillet works and helps modulate and spread heat ) housing ( any kind of box thing : cardboard , wood , ceramic , an existing grill ... it just needs to seal and maintain a bit of heat ) a rack for the food to be smoked ( or you could use rope and hang food as in smoke houses ) thermometer ( poke it into the top or the side to keep an eye on things ) Put it all together , put the sawdust into the skillet , turn it on , and adjust for desired temperature . I 'd recommend 200-250 for pork . You may also want to put a second hotplate in with boiling water , or splash a bit of water in the smoke pan on occasion to keep the inside moist when smoking for long periods . Before smoking anything , brine it and let it sit uncovered in the fridge for a day . This allows the surface protein to dry , and this helps to develop the smoke flavor .
I found this on <URL> and I think it explains it quite well . RAY < > A " 50/50 " usually references an edge . So on the cutting edge , it is an even 50/50 " V " . It can be 50/50 at 12 degrees or 50/50 @ 20 , but each sides angle is equivocal . A double bevel is a knife design created by grinding . So from the spine to the cutting edge , there is a blade face that has been ground ( most of the time ) . It can be a flat grind , a convex grind , a hollow grind , and any of these grinds can be symmetric ( 50/50 ) or asymmetric . So for instance , my Ginsanko Hiromoto Western Deba has an asymmetrical semi convex grind . It has a flat ground left blade face at around 30 % of the total included angle and the right side blade face has a distinctly convex grind that is the other 70 % of the total included angle , but the actual cutting edge has an asymmetry , as well . The actual cutting edge does not look like a " V " as it is , in fact , a 60/40 right-handed bias . It 's a particularly unique blade , but exemplifies your point , quite well . : mrgreen : In short , the numbers like 50/50 or 70/30 represent the percentage of the included angle on each side of the blade . So , for a 50/50 knife with an included angle of 50 ° , it would be ground to a 25 ° edge angle on each side of the blade . See diagram below :
Depending on the design , the heating coil may have collapsed and is shorting out at various points This may cause it to run hotter than intended , and result in problems you describe Measure the current with a meter and compare to manufacturers label , if much higher it 's time to scrap it . Unlikely to be easily repairable if it has a heating coil If it is running hot it is likely to fail soon and not heat at all Modern crock-pots used solid elements , not coils . They also often have physical temperature regulation systems , not just a simple element selector switch
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
Pizza sauce is , presumably , whatever tomato-based sauce you 'd put on a pizza . Those tend to be essentially like smooth ( not chunky ) , lightly seasoned spaghetti sauce . If by " plain tomato sauce " you mean a jar of tomato sauce for spaghetti , you 're probably in good shape . If you mean a can of pure tomato sauce , with no other ingredients , you 'll probably want to add some seasoning . Basil and oregano are good bets for herbs ; garlic and onion are also common , and perhaps crushed red pepper if you want a little kick . If you 're looking for a real recipe , <URL> , but search engines will serve you well .
American versions of Mongolian BBQ are often pretty sweet ( this does n't sound like an authentic recipe ) . More soy sauce ( or more of everything but the sugar ) would cut the sweetness . Chili oil would certainly give it heat , but is n't going to temper the sweetness much . Any of the following would offset the sweetness and be appropriate for this type of dish : Any tart apple ( a common ingredient in the Japanese version of Mongolian BBQ ) Onions ( not caramelized ) Rice wine vinegar
Sure you can bake crushed peppermint candy into cake . If you 're talking about candy cane type candy , you can just crush it and add it to the batter , you would n't have to make changes to the recipe at all except the addition . It wo n't affect the way the cake bakes . The very edges of crushed candy might meld into the cake a bit , but I would expect that effect to actually be pretty nice . The sharp edges would be just a bit softened . Whether it maintains it 's own character would mostly depend upon the size of the pieces . Powder might dissolve , but distinct pieces ( like .3 -.5 centimeter or so ) would stay distinct .
Taste them . Bouillon cubes contain enough salt to preserve them from spoilage , but the flavor ( which , after all , is why you 're using them ) may weaken , dull , and change over the years . If you still like their flavor , then go ahead and use them .
First of all , people indeed often add some seasoning in the beginning , but are usually careful with the amount , especially with salt . Flavor-wise , you could add it at the end , after the reduction and be fine . However , salt can also affect the process of cooking . For instance , it can draw moisture out of some vegetables when frying them first , meaning that they will be cooked a bit faster . That is why some salt can be added at the beginning . At the end , after the reduction , you should taste and add some more seasoning , if needed .
I tried freezing tzatziki sauce but was n't happy with it when thawed as it seemed to separate easily and even when mixed thoroughly it seemed to have a different , more watery texture than when fresh . What I do now if I have cucumbers I need to use is to prepare and process them exactly as I would for fresh tzatziki sauce . I freeze the processed cucumber in 1/2 or 1 cup containers and thaw to make fresh tzatziki sauce . Works great and the added bonus is that it does n't take up as much room in the freezer .
What we perceive as " flavor " often comes from a lot of aromatic and volatile components that we smell . We smell them because they are volatile , which means that they tend to evaporate off food ( if they are small molecules ) or tend to be carried off of food ( for larger molecules ) . Aside from the basic sweet , sour , bitter , salt , and umami notes , the rest of the complexity of flavor comes from smell and volatile flavor molecules . If the only thing that evaporated when reducing a sauce was " pure water " in the form of steam , you would n't be able to smell it . Yet , when you cook a stock or sauce for a long time , the whole kitchen and house often smells with great aromas . More aromas in your house means more flavor lost from the sauce . So , if you do add water back into a sauce , your sauce will often taste somewhat more diluted . Or , more likely , it will taste " unbalanced , " since the smaller flavor molecules tend to escape faster and easier in evaporation . When we cook down a sauce and concentrate it , we 're used to the way the flavors change . But when you dilute it again , the flavors may not have the same proportion as the original . All of that said , the magnitude of this effect varies a lot depending on the sauce and types of flavors in it . If you over-reduce slightly and just add a bit of water back in , it 's not likely to make a huge difference . But if you took a giant pot of flavorful meat stock ( which tastes fine as-is ) , then reduced it down to a demiglace , and then added water back in to try to re-create the original stock , it definitely would taste very different and many flavor notes would be significantly weaker or lost altogether . As Harold McGee notes in On Food and Cooking ( pp. 600-601 ) : Slowly simmered until it 's reduced to a tenth its original volume , stock becomes glace de viande , literally " meat ice " or " meat glass , " which cools to a stiff , clear jelly . Glace has a thick , syrupy , sticky consistency thanks to its high gelatin content , about 25 % , an intensely savory taste thanks to the concentrated amino acids [ large , non-volatile molecules ] , and a rounded , mellow , but somewhat flat aroma thanks to the long hours during which volatile molecules have been boiled off or reacted with each other . ... Intermediate between stock and glace is demi-glace or " half-glace " which is stock simmered down to 25-40 % of its original volume . ... [ I ] t also has the advantage of sparing some of the stock 's flavor from being boiled off . ... Demi-glace is the base for many classic French brown sauces . Or , listen to James Peterson , author of Sauces : Classical and Contemporary Sauce Making ( 3rd ed. , p. 91 ) : Do not overreduce . Stocks are often reduced to concentrate their flavor and to give them an appetizing , light , syrupy texture . Although reduction is an almost essential technique for converting stocks into sauces , much of the delicacy and flavor of meats is lost if reduced too long . Many of the flavors contained in stock are aromatic and evaporate when simmered over a prolonged period , leaving a flat taste . In a later chapter ( p. 112 ) , he adds : " Stocks and sauces that have been overly reduced often have a flat , cooked taste that must be offset with more assertive flavors . " As Escoce 's answer points out , when you reduce a sauce significantly , it may " overcook " the flavors . Some of that may be due to browning ( Maillard ) reactions , but prolonged cooking will also break down some large flavor molecules , again lessening certain flavor notes and altering the balance . In tomato sauce in particular , you may also <URL> ( specifically pectin ) by overcooking , which will make your sauce more watery . For vegetable-based sauces , this can often be prevented by boiling the sauce briefly to deactivate enzymes before simmering to reduce . Because of the flavor changes and loss during reduction , many cuisines around the world have a tradition of adding some " fresh " ingredients near the end of cooking and/or when serving , such as fresh herbs , a spritz of fresh juice , or some chopped fresher vegetables . The flavors we associate with " fresh " are often the most volatile ones , given off early when a food is first cut or cooked . Adding them at the end can give a depth of flavor that would n't be preserved in a long-cooked reduced sauce . If you do end up with an overreduced sauce , the flavor is often best salvaged by adding some flavorful new ingredients ( as in the Peterson quotation above ) or at least adding some more of the " base " back in , such as more stock in a reduced stock or more tomatoes/tomato paste in a tomato sauce rather than plain water . So , how do you minimize flavor loss when reducing ? It 's tough , but it depends on whether more problems are created in flavor loss through evaporation or through chemical changes in the remaining liquid ( like flavor molecules breaking down ) . In most cases , the evaporation is actually a greater concern when making a sauce , so simm
If your stock turns to jelly in the fridge , it means you did it right ! Simmering the bones breaks down the collagen and turns it into gelatin ; that 's the very essence of stock-making . The gelatin is exactly what you want from the stock ; at low temperatures it has a very jelly-like consistency , but at higher temperatures it melts and provides a very rich texture . The more you reduce the stock , the more gelatinous it will become , so if it turned out stiffer than you expected , it 's probably because you let a lot of water evaporate . Typically , when making stock , you use a very low simmer ; just a few bubbles per minute . Any more than that and your stock will reduce . But reducing is perfectly OK , and many cooks will reduce an entire pot of stock down to a few tablespoons ; it 's like bullion , only without all the salt and preservatives . Heavily-reduced stock is called glace de viande and is often used to give a sauce or dish a little bit of extra kick , imparting a powerful meat flavour . But you probably did n't reduce it that much . If you 're finding it to be too concentrated or gelatinous , even at higher temperatures , you can feel free to dilute it . For soups or sauces you can probably dilute it 1 for 1 , but taste as you go along just to make sure you 're not watering it down too much . When only the top layer of a stock solidifies in the refrigerator , it is probably fat , which you should skim off and discard ( or reserve ) . The rest is your actual stock , and in your case it sounds delicious . Also , since you mention vacuum-sealing - I prefer to use covered ice cube trays for freezing stock . That lets you portion it out much more easily than a big solid blob .
I believe that the best indicator of freshness is the colour of the leaves . Once they turn from green to brown , it is all over for the pesto . To boost the ' shelf-life ' of the pesto in the fridge , make sure that it is completely covered with olive oil before sealing the container .
Tamarind gives a sour and slightly molasses note to food , including rendang . To replicate it , you thus need something sour , like lemon juice , and a dark sugar flavour , like black treacle , molasses , or dark brown sugar . For your recipe I would add 2 tablespoons of lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of dark brown sugar .
Here is a quote from the company that makes the registered trademark Baileys Irish Cream : Baileys ® is the only cream liqueur that guarantees its taste for 2 years from the day it was made , opened or unopened , stored in the in the fridge or not when stored away from direct sunlight at a temperature range of 0-25 degrees centigrade . One of the keys to achieving this 2 year shelf-life is in our patented process of blending of fresh Irish cream with the spirits and the whiskey without the use of preservatives . The alcohol acts as a natural preservative for the product . Under normal conditions of storage Baileys has a shelf-life of 30 months . If you are concerned about a bottle of Baileys ® please check the best consumed before date on the bottle - all bottles now carry a best before date . This number is located on the bottom left hand side of the back label . Example : Code 11 20XY would mean that we guarantee the product would taste perfect until that date ( XY is the year 2 years from the date of manufacture ) ( <URL> ) . The alcohol content is the sole preservative listed .
Components : sweet - > sugar + mirin ( rice wine ) salt - > soy savory - > soy + mirin + eel bones At home , you probably wo n't be able to manage eel bones boiled down into stock . Ignoring that , it 's all a matter of mixing and reducing . Sugar + soy + mirin , reduce to 1/3 , revel in the joy of caramel and salt and sharpness .
end question
start question
Bake and then Broil instead of flipping ?
The reason for turning the food when baking is so the side that is in contact with the pan can get hit by the hot air . In the case of turning on the bake and then turning on the broil , you would still have the medium of what ever your food is sitting in . If you are willing to elevated your food above a drip pan , turn on just the bottom heating coil ( if possible ) , and set the food directly on the rack you could eliminate the need of turning halfway through the process .
Your refrigerator should be set at a temperature below 4 Celsius . If it is n't , then you are exposing yourself to danger from eating the other things stored there . At this temperature , the cheesecake will keep perfectly without the icing deforming . Indeed , it will probably even keep well if the fridge temeprature is slightly high . Under no circumstances should you increase the temperature of your freezer . The cake risks texture change if it freezes . A freezer should always be kept below freezing , or else the other food stored in there will take large hits to both quality and safety .
Margarine has less fat than butter , but it does n't give quite the same flavor as butter does . You also have to be careful what KIND of margarine you are using . Tub margarine has a higher water content and can ruin your baked goods and the stick margarine can have a lot of trans fats in it . If you really want to get detailed into the differences , check out this site : <URL> I agree with everything stated on that site in the fact that butter , in my opinion is far superior in flavor and texture than margarine . I have yet to meet a dish that butter did n't improve the taste over margarine . But there is the thing , it really is a lot about taste . A good quote from the site about margarine : " Not great for baking : does not allow foods to become flaky , rather more cakelike ; does not spread as well as lard or shortening ; adds a greasy taste . However , some bake with it all the time and have great success ; it 's a matter of taste . "
Yogurt curdles at high temperatures . If you curdle a big lump of yogurt , breaking it up well is hard , and it does n't taste too well . You want to end up with tiny particles evenly dispersed in the dish . So when you add it a spoon at a time , you can mix it really well before it has had time to curdle . An alternative method is to do it the other way round . You remove a spoonfull of the curry and dump it into the yogurt , then stir immediately . When it is completely absorbed , you add the next spoon . You continue until you have something like a 1:1 mix in the bowl , then dump it into the still cooking curry and stir . The second method requires less than 30 s between spoons , but is n't necessarily less work . ( You may have to prepare a separate bowl for the yogurt ) . However , it produces even smoother results . If you have a problematic yogurt ( low fat content , high clumping tendency ) , use the second method . Edit HenrikSöderlund 's comment makes me think that my explanation was n't clear enough , so here an addition . The yogurt will curdle a few seconds after it is dumped in the pot . The point is , you do n't lumps of curdled yogurt . A lump of curdled yogurt is grainy and sour and does n't mix well with liquid . Encountering a lump of curdled yogurt in your soup/curry unpleasant in a way similar to encountering a lump of undissolved baking powder in your cake . On the other hand , A tiny droplet of curdled yogurt is too small to feel as grainy , too small an amount of acid to give you an unpleasant sensation , and small enough to form a suspension with the " broth " . That 's why you have to break up the yogurt in droplets before it curdles , and this is only physically possible when you start out with a small amount like a single spoon . It is even more important to do that when adding to the dry-ish mixture described in the edit than when adding to a simmering broth . The broth is below 100 ° C , the curry base can be much hotter , causing the yogurt to curdle quicker . Also , a liquid will dissolve the yogurt easily and disperse it , but with the dry curry base , you have to rely on stirring only to reduce the yogurt to droplets .
Greasing and lining with paper is something of a belt-and-braces approach to simply ensure the cake does n't stick to the bottom of the tin . I have several recipes that go one step further and suggest greasing the paper as well afterwards . As you suggest , greasing the tin first also stops it from curling up .
No , for most marinades , there should be no reason you can not make them in advance and refrigerate . It may even allow some improvements as flavors from any herbs or spices infuse into the liquid . You just want to practice good food safety , which means putting it in the refrigerator as soon as it is made .
I would recommend a combination toaster and convection oven . While I have a regular oven in my small apartment , I rarely use it in favor of saving energy ( and money on my energy bill ) by using the toaster/convection oven . I have purchased toaster oven sized muffin tins ( just a 6 muffin tin ) and a toaster oven sized roasting rack that fits two sizes of meat . My oven came with a roasting pan . The convection features have done wonderful things for my pies . You can get them big enough to make pizza in . As long as you are n't cooking for a crowd , it will work wonders . Things I 've successfully baked in there include : Muffins Cake ( did have to do it one cake at a time for a layer cake ) Pie ( the convection feature is perfect for pie ! ) Bread Cupcakes Pitas Steak ( well , it was a broiled steak recipe - the best I can do without a grill ) Chicken breasts I had a friend who rented a place that has a convection cooking setting on the microwave . We successfully used it to make muffins once , but I have n't tried it further .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
Coconut oil has a low smoke point ( 177-204C depending on processing ) . Ghee has a smoke point of 252C . The effect of this is that it will be quite hard to stop the oil burning . But that 's not to say it would be impossible - softening onions and garlic in butter or olive oil is common , and they have lower smoke points still . But the texture from frying at a lower temperature will be quite different . It may also affect the flavour of your spices . In addition , the coconut oil will change the character of your curry significantly . That may not be a bad thing . ( all figures from <URL> )
I did the experiment complete with pictures , unfortunately I managed to to screw up the pictures , but luckily I took notes . I started with two very similar eggplants , globe variety , Like this : I sliced each of the eggplants into five slices of equal width , discarding the ends . I took one slice of each eggplant to make five pairs to treat differently as far as salting . I pre-salted three of the pairs and drained them for one-half hour prior to baking . One of those pairs was rinsed and dried before baking , another pair was not rinsed - just thoroughly dried with a paper towel prior to baking . The third pair was left salted for baking . The fourth pair was salted ( not rinsed ) just before baking . The fifth pair was left unsalted . I baked all of the slices at 400F for 90 minutes , until they were just about done . At that point I rinsed one slice of each pair and returned all of the eggplant to the 400F oven for 10 more minutes . I weighed each of the pairs at the beginning and end of the experiment . After allowing the eggplant to come to " eating temperature " , I invited a friend to join me in the tasting . We concurred 100 % as to the palatability of each slice . Here are the results : So , bottom line , at least for this variety of eggplant , pre-salting and draining is an unnecessary step , although rinsing is necessary . Rinsing can be done after pre-salting and draining , before baking , or the eggplant can be rinsed at the end of baking . The difference in weight loss is negligible . Unfortunately , I was n't really able to gauge " bitterness " , because the eggplant was n't bitter to begin with . Based on this experiment , if I were to bake something like an Eggplant Parmesan ( unbreaded ) , I would salt the eggplant just before baking , rinse when the eggplant is nearly done , sauce , then continue baking until the final dish is done , cheese melted and slightly browned . As per Joe 's comment below , breading would be a different ball of wax , but I would certainly consider par-baking the salted eggplant to eliminate the draining step , rinsing is really necessary either way . A few minutes in the oven after rinsing the par-baked eggplant would give you an ideal slice , ready to bread . As a matter of fact , I 'm not crazy about eggplant , but my friend is . I 'll update this answer in a few days with the results of modifying Eggplant Parmesan by par-baking the salted slices prior to breading instead of draining the salted eggplant then breading . I suspect the prior method will produce better results in the same amount of time with less sogginess of the breading , as the moisture loss continues during the cooking of the pre-salted and drained eggplant . For that continuation of the experiment I will make two separate casseroles , and weigh both the par-baked eggplant and salted and drained eggplant prior to breading .
If you 're unthawing them in your refrigerator ( below 40 F ) , then you should be just fine . Most beasties do n't reproduce at any significant rate below 40 F . There is n't a clean cut off point because it depends entirely on the existing level of contamination present in your meat . You should be aware that repeated cycles of thaw/freeze will really damage the texture of your meat . The cells simply do not hold up to that .
The exact time and temperature will depend on the size of the breasts and your oven . You should always use a meat thermometer to verify that the chicken is cooked all the way through . For breasts , you want to make sure they 're around 160 F on the inside ( they 're actually safe to eat a bit earlier , but 160 F leaves you with a margin of error ) . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , you 'll need to cut them open to make sure they 're not pink on the inside , and the juices run clear . I 'd start the oven at about 375 F , and start checking on them after about 30 mins .
If your caramel rolls are the kind with a sticky , gooey mass in the bottom of the pan that is flipped upside down out of the pan , then I would say that the rolls wo n't really get good and caramely in a stoneware pan . You 'd be better off baking one pan of rolls at a time in the metal pan . While one pan is rising and baking , just chill the other part of the dough ... either plain in a bowl , or prepared into a log that only needs to be cut . If the caramel rolls are more like a cinnamon bun , then the stoneware dishes should do fine in a pinch . This is assuming they are glazed stoneware and not terra cotta . Cooking time will increase a bit as the stoneware will take longer to heat up ( it will also retain the heat longer when removed from the oven ) . You could always just go out and buy some foil pans . I do that when I make rolls ( caramel , cinnamon , and sticky ) for the local fire company 's carnival . They go through 17 = 20 dozen rolls each year . I know baking rolls can be a lot of work , so what I have found to be very helpful , is to make the dough the night before baking . Cover with cling film , and let it have a slow rise in the fridge all night . ( you will get improved flavor too . ) The next day , divide the cold dough up and prepare as usual . They will take a little longer for the rise in the pan after shaping , but it sure is a lot easier on you .
Traditional dough will not freeze well . You have to par-bake it . In the US , the & ldquo ; freshly baked & rdquo ; bread sold in most supermarkets is par-baked dough . This is risen dough , which is then baked for 70 to 80 % of the usual baking time , cooled , frozen , and shipped to the supermarket , where it is baked again until golden . You could do the same . A par-baked baugette is a bit denser than a traditional one . Freezing the dough before baking it kills most of the yeast preventing it from working during the first stages of baking .
The reason for turning the food when baking is so the side that is in contact with the pan can get hit by the hot air . In the case of turning on the bake and then turning on the broil , you would still have the medium of what ever your food is sitting in . If you are willing to elevated your food above a drip pan , turn on just the bottom heating coil ( if possible ) , and set the food directly on the rack you could eliminate the need of turning halfway through the process .
Just went for it by following directions here : <URL> I will say that " Set aside for 3-5 minutes . The chocolate sets quickly " was very optimistic . Needed to balance roof on supports til chocolate was hard - an hour ! Yes , it cooled quickly but did not become hard til then . Used 50 % dark chocolate ( no milk ) About as tricky in the end as eggless icing but less messy , funnily enough . Seems secure enough now . My gingerbread sections are already absorbing some room moisture so we shall see how the whole thing holds up ...
This is going to be a bit of a Zen answer ( as usual for me ) . I would venture that it does n't matter . Normally , when you 're making a bean stew or a chili bean casserole , you wo n't be discarding the liquid anyway . When you 're eating the final dish , it does n't matter to you if the protein is in the bean or the liquid , as you 're eating them both . It has , however , been my experience with white beans and chickpeas , that if you cook them more slowly , the water gets gloopier ( higher viscosity ) , which means that proteins have moved from bean to water .
Try this : <URL> A container of oil is placed in a water bath that is held at a constant temperature . You can experiment with 62 - 65C to find what you prefer . Raw yolks are gently lowered into the oil and cook for about an hour . Remove gently with slotted spoon and serve . They can hold for a couple of hours , particularly if you use a lower initial temperature , then lower the temp to 60C after about an hour . If you do n't have a circulator , I am sure you can experiment and achieve similar results in a simmering pot of water .
From a purist perspective , cabbage is fairly important to the recognizability of the dish by that name ( as well as the pickled matchstick-cut ginger ) . Additional ingredients beyond those two are far more substitutable ( at least from common Japanese perspective ) ; the cabbage actually contributes a fair amount of flavor to an otherwise unremarkable dish . In fact , the presence of a mere two leaves suggests to me this is a pretty small portion . So here 's a " how to avoid substituting " answer , followed by a how to substitute answer . Cabbage tends to survive a good 2 weeks in the refrigerator , so I would n't fret about it too much . It also makes a good garnish , shredded ; additionally , it was super trendy for a few years for izakaya in Japan to serve raw cabbage with miso paste ( sometimes sweetened ) . I know many shops that will even sell a half a head ( in Japan it 's easy to buy even a quarter head of cabbage ) , or you may find a small package of pre-chopped , unseasoned coleslaw mix , which typically contains cabbage and carrots . Finally , cabbage makes an excellent foundation for a vegetarian soup stock , so it 's great way of making sure any surplus does n't go to waste . The only substitutes somewhat consistent with the style of the dish are other variations of cabbage ( bok choy , napa cabbage , possibly kimchi ) or certain crispy roots like kohlrabi . But frankly , those steer the dish into a non-Japanese style of pan-fried noodles . Not that there 's anything wrong with that , but the texture and flavor differences are fairly pronounced . In a pinch , we 've made these substitutions in my home , but in that case it was more about using up available ingredients , rather than trying to find an alternative .
I do n't know what a " mini oven " is , so I will skip this one . You should not , under any circumstances , get a microwave . A microwave is not suitable for baking . There are models which are supposed to be a microwave and convection oven at once , but I have frequently heard of them not turning off the microwaves when in convection mode , despite the manual saying otherwise . If you happen to get such a model , you will not be able to bake cakes in it . I have a toaster oven of this type : <URL> It serves me well for all kinds of cake and bread baking . Whatever has gone wrong with my cakes , I never had the feeling that it was the oven which was the obstacle to them getting better . As far as I am aware , you can not use the tiny toaster ovens which are only about 15 cm deep . I have never tried it , but I would be afraid that the heating elements are too close , and also you can not fit a cake pan in there .
end question
start question
What makes white chili white ?
My understanding is that what many people call white chili would be considered a green chile stew in a place like New Mexico . It 's not red in color because it does n't have any significant amount of dried red chile in it -- it gets whatever heat and chile flavor it has from green chile , which does n't color the stew significantly . As to defining chili , I think you could work on a definition forever . Apart from the notion that a chile is the pepper , which is the main ingredient , and chili is the dish , I do n't like to define it too carefully ( of course , New Mexicans think the dish is chile too , but what they have is different from Texas chili , even when they use red chiles ) . I think chili is a stew , though . Most stew is n't chili , but all chili is stew . And I believe that for most people to accept what you 're making as chili , it would have to include a significant dose of dried red chile powder . So if you can accept the validity of white chili at all , and what you 're making has almost all green chiles and very little red chile , then I 'd say you 're making a white chili . Or a green chile stew -- which would be my preferential term in this case .
Vinegar , in general , has distinct acidic characteristics that will affect a recipe ; it 's often used for this reason . For instance , in marinades , the acid is used to break down muscle fiber and help flavor penetrate . In Cevice , the acid component is used to " cook " the fish . Additionally , the different types of vinegar have different flavor characteristics . I , personally , do n't much like red wine vinegar as I find it kind of bland . I much prefer balsamic or champagne . So the question you really need to ask yourself is , " will the flavor of the red wine over the white wine adversely affect my dish ? " You might ask the same question about the garlic . So subbing one type of vinegar for another is fine if you 're looking to replace the role of the acid in a recipe ( also why you can sub lemon juice ) . Whether or not you feel the flavor can be substituted is really just a matter of personal preference . If you do n't know ahead of time about the flavor , try it and find out for sure . To specifically answer the flavor characteristic for your question , I 'd say yes . Red wine is OK . As pointed out , swordfish is a hearty fish and should hold up fine . I probably would n't sub balsamic , would use champagne as a priority , would think long and hard about apple cider . If it was a lighter fish , I 'd be much more wary about red wine .
After spending more time on search engines and thanks to the comment from belisarius ... Medium refers to the thickness level of the final sauce , and is controlled by the ratio of roux ( butter/flour ) to milk . For 1 cup of milk : thin = 1 tablespoon each flour/butter medium = 2 tablespoons each flour/butter ( a " standard " bechamel ) thick = 3 tablespoons each flour/butter Sources : <URL> , <URL>
Of course you can use jaggery in all of these recipes or in any recipe in lieu of sugar , but like all substitutions , they may not be perfect or one to one . The outcome and flavor profile will be slightly different . Consider what jaggery is made of ( per the infamous wikipedia ) : Up to 50 % sucrose up to 20 % invert sugars moisture content of up to 20 % remainder made up of other insoluble matter such as wood ash , proteins and bagasse fibers The parts that are not sucrose are the parts that are interesting . How will they affect your recipe ? What adjustments should you make ? Invert sugars taste sweet , but are even more hydrophyllic than sucrose , and interfere with crystal formation of the sucrose . This may be an advantage or a disadvantage depending on the recipe . Candies dependant on sugar crystalization will be trickiest to manage . Moisture means water , you might have to reduce longer or reduce water content elsewhere in the recipe , or it could be a non-issue . Other content will lead to the unique flavor profile , which may be why you want to use it in the first place In regards to the specific foods you have mentioned : Gajar ka halwa -- You would have to adjust the ratios , but no reason it would not work based on how this dessert is described in the wikipedia article Barfi -- I do n't have any personal experience with barfi to know how much it depends on crystalization versus denaturing of the milk proteins for its texture -- you would have to experiment . The descriptions I have read sound like it is more about the milk . Ready made custard powder -- I do n't know what ingredients are in the " ready made custard powder " -- the result would certainly be safe . Assuming the custard powder contains proteins and starch which thicken the custard when you add it to milk or water , then I see no reason why the jaggery should not work , although the result may be somewhat less thickened . Milk tea - no issues other than the flavor profile Cake -- with appropriate adjustments ( mostly for the water content ) it should work fine , except possibly those made by the creaming method Note that everything I have written is based on the science , and internet descriptions of local food items I am not familiar with . You should also consult local recipe books , and find variations which use jaggery -- or the lack thereof . That should give you some idea what is common , and how recipes using jaggery vary from those that do n't for the same item .
According to <URL> : Jaggery is not as sweet as white sugar , so when substituting white sugar for Jaggery use about 1/3 less . When swapping Jaggery in for sugar , use anywhere from 1/4 to 1/2 more Jaggery than was called for of sugar ( if you want to keep the recipe as sweet as it was . ) That meshes with my limited experience too , so if the jaggery is ground in such a way that it will measure like the sugar you are replacing , and you are replacing 1TBS of sugar , then you would want to use somewhere in the neighborhood of 1TBS plus 1tsp of jaggery . If precision is needed ( which of course does n't really apply here , but bear with me ) consider that the way jaggery and sugar measures volumetrically are unlikely to really be identical . It would be better to measure by weight , or if there is liquid in the recipe , by water displacement .
Its called chocolate <URL> . There are two types : Fat blooming - cause is not known for certain , but probably the type VI chocolate crystals are more thermodynamically favored , so spontaneous conversion ( and exit from the surface of the solid solution constituting the chocolate body ) may be possible . Sugar blooming - the sugar in the chocolate is dissolved by humidity , and the precipitates on the surface . Fortunately , there are no safety problems with bloomed chocolate , and it can be remelted with no inherent loss of quality . So bloomed chocolate is perfectly useful in recipes where it will be melted ; or it can be melted and <URL> if desired .
Cinnamon adds a different spice profile than chili powder or red or cayenne pepper would . It is a common savory spice in Indian food and I believe it 's also used in savory dishes in Chinese cooking . It 's a very versatile spice :) . We also use cocoa powder in our chili as it provides a real depth of flavor ( dark bitter flavors which are quite good in chili ) . Both of these add some curiosity and difference to the chili without themselves adding sweetness . Usually they get added as a fairly safe way to add something " different " to standard chili .
One technique , especially in Mexican foods , for recipes that use dried chilies , is to toast the pods before using them . Toast them over medium heat until the pod blisters , but do n't blacken too much . They are very thin , so going from done to ruined takes only a few seconds of in attention . Be careful !
Since I could see this being a cooking/food science question if you really wanted to play with this property of liquids in drinks , perhaps a quick answer is in order . This really would be quite well-suited to the physics stackexchange , though - this is a concept that 's quite describable by physics . To follow up on Sobachatina 's comment , the property you 're in fact looking for is surface tension ( which is reduced by surfactants like detergent ) . If you want to compare liquids , be they water , water + detergent , milk ( water + stuff ) , or even alcohol or oil , you just want to compare their surface tensions . Surface tension is in fact a measurable quantity , with dimensions of force per length . There are a couple of equivalent definitions : when increasing the area of the surface by a small amount , the amount of work ( energy ) required per area increase ; or when the surface is bounded by a line ( imagine a bubble film and string ) , the amount of force on that line per length . You should note that surface tension depends on the fluids on both sides of the surface . Most commonly we talk about surface tension of an arbitrary liquid against air , but surface tension against glass , plastic , or metal is commonly visible in your vessels and utensils , and surface tension between various fluids is of course visible when you try something like mixing oil and water . As for actual examples , Wikipedia has a <URL> with surface tensions of various fluids against air . Among them are a few potentially relevant for cooking : acetic acid + water ( though stronger than normal vinegar ) , ethanol + water , a very concentrated sucrose solution , and water . Note that the addition of alcohol or acetic acid substantially reduces surface tension of water ! If anyone can follow up with more data on surface tension of liquids commonly seen in cooking , I 'd be very interested ! It 's also possible to measure surface tension at home , though I 've never done it , and I 'm not sure how accurate you could get .
Yes , it is normal for pulses to develop froth when soaked . I 've seen it at lower temperatures and shorter soaking times . They can feel slimy too . This is n't a sign of bacteria development in itself . Chickpeas , as well as other legumes , contain lots of saponins . Saponins are a type of detergent , and they form a foam when dissolved in water . An example is found in Saponin content of food plants and some prepared foods by D. Fenwick and D. Oakenfull , published in Journal of the science of food and agriculture , vol . 34-2 ( no free version available ) . Chickpeas , soy , lucerne , and other legumes all had significant amounts of saponin , 56 g/kg in the case of chickpeas . Note that soaking dissolves also lots of other molecules contained in the beans . Some recommend to soak and throw out the soaking water in order to remove the oligosaccharides contained in most legumes , because bacteria breaking down these indigestible sugars produce gases as a side product , which is felt as bloating . McGee reminds us that this soaking also dissolves many of the micronutrients contained in the beans , and advices against the practice . If the beans are soaked ( for shortening of cooking times ) , the soaked water should be used for cooking . If the eaters experience bloating , the beans should be cooked for a longer time , to give oligosaccharides time to break down under temperature . This was about the general case , but now a note on your current situation . The conditions of your chickpea soaking were risky . Your chickpeas can have developed bacteria independently of the froth . In temperate regions , soakers are n't a problem , because bacteria growth in them is not especially quick ( the 2 hours rule is made tight enough to cover things like meat , and a soaker does n't even have enough hydrated bacteria food initially ) . But I have noticed that food I would have had no problem with at 22 ° C goes bad in short time at 28 ° C . The relationship between bacteria growth and temperature is not linear , and with growing heat , bacteria growth can speed up a lot . So I do n't know if I would eat the peas - not because of the froth , but because of the conditions you had them in . I would recommend that you soak in the fridge next time - you do n't need any fermentation to take place , so the low temperatures are n't a problem .
This often happens when the tomatoes used are not fully mature . Although apparently are completely red , the parties less red lighten the sauce . Alternatively , depends on the quality of tomatoes . The Native Americans tomatoes were yellow ( hence the Italian name " golden apple " = " pomo d'oro " = " pomodoro " ) . Through the selections have become red . But remaining mixed colors , which are " not red " but " reddish " . Or yellow - orange . In the United States , the orange tomatoes are sold seasonally in the markets of agricultural producers : it is " heirloom tomatoes " or " tomatoes tradition " ( heirloom tomatoes ) , ie those that were cultivated before 1800 and which for centuries delighted the palates of our ancestors . The study conducted by the chemist Betty J. Burry and biologist Betty K. Ishida has shown that orange tomatoes contain more lycopene ( an important antioxidant molecule ) of the common red tomatoes . The difference is due to the chemical form of lycopene in red tomatoes that occurs in the trans form while in the orange tomatoes in tetra-cis form . Research conducted in California and in Ohio ( USA ) have shown that the form of the tetra-cis lycopene is more efficiently absorbed by the body compared to the trans form . The research group has also assessed the oxidative damage : lycopene and other antioxidant molecules , in fact , may protect both the cells and the essential fatty acids from oxidation . Using a procedure known as " TBARS assay " the researchers noted that oxidative damage is decreased by consuming tomato sauce and tomato sauce red orange , but the damage reduction was greater in the diet that included the consumption of orange tomatoes . ( * ) <URL> Data di pubblicazione : 05/07/2012 Autore : Emanuela Fontana Copyright : www.freshplaza.it Personally I can say that in the diets of very young children less red tomatoes ( fresh , peeled and seeded ) are preferred , because they are more digestible and light . PS A very prolonged cooking of the sauce , on the contrary , gives a very dark and indigestible sauce ( tomato paste ) which is used more as a seasoning for cooking of regional recipes . Is never used on pasta , as the taste is altered and too strong . EDIT Yes it happens very often , and we all start with deep red tomatoes , san marzano and so on . But often the salsa comes oranges . <URL> that it comes from blending tomatoes after mixing with oil . But I never put so much oil to think that it could depend by oil . And it happens to me too . And the other persons disagree too . Everyone does buy san marzano tomatoes ( or similar ) , very mature and red . But when you cut them , inside they can be hard and a bit pale , not really red . And flavonoid and lycopene are into any tomato , just in different or more or less visible quantity . ( flavonoyd becomes from latin : flavus = yellow or blond / leukos is from greek = white ) . To me , since the original DNA is yellow , it could be that some genetic trait has remained , not limited to only one quality but in general the whole botanical species , and sometimes emerges . The major dietary source of lycopene is represented by the tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) from which it takes its name , and its derivatives , in which represents 60 % of the total content in carotenoids . The lycopene content is influenced by the level of maturation of the tomato , has been calculated that in fact red and ripe tomatoes are present 50 mg / kg of lycopene . But of course , i can wrong . <URL> / <URL> <URL> " The date of his arrival in Europe in 1540 when the Spaniard Hernán Cortés returned to his homeland and brought the specimens , but its cultivation and propagation waited until the second half of the seventeenth century . Arrives in Italy in 1596 but only later , finding favorable climatic conditions in the south of the country , you have the color change of its color from the original and distinctive gold color , which gave its name to the plant , the current red , thanks to selections and subsequent grafts . " EDIT II @ MandoMando Yes , I agree . What you say agrees with my experience . I must say that it is false that " many often " happens , it just happens sometimes . Normally remain red . But I never use electrical equipment , only hand devices , like these : The first is precisely for the tomato sauce . The second pass any cooked vegetables . But if you want , you can tray the ancient recipe , that I use only when I have guests and I want to offer some pasta with a fresh made sauce . You must blanch the tomatoes in boiling water until the skin breaks down ( usually 20-30 seconds ) . Then remove the tomatoes from the water and peel them right away , still intact and hot . This is the method used by our grandmothers who were canned . After removing the skin , you can put the whole tomatoes into the jars and sterilize them . Or you can make a sauce with olive oil , salt and herbs ( as I do ) or with other ingredients such as carrots , celery or whatever . I do not think that modern industries for storage of tomato sauce stil
It is perfectly normal for sugar to turn dark brown when making . If it turns even darker , it is because it has been burning too hot . <URL> , so you want to get there gradually . As for the color , many recipes call for to make it smoother and tender , but only incorporate it after the crystals are fully dissolved and you 're ready to take it off the burner . I 've seen a few youtube videos with just sugar and water for sugar cages ...
It looks to me like you have a couple of things going on here : You are worried about the safety of undercooked beans You want your beans to be palatable To address the safety issue , I think we 'd need to know more about the kind of beans you 're using . Kidney beans are the ones most well known to be toxic if they are undercooked . Other beans , say , great northerns , or pintos , would n't have the same problem . Then again , you still want a chili that is edible . You certainly can cook dried beans , but there are a few factors getting in your way . They do take a while . I cook beans fairly often in our house . Even after an overnight soak , they still often take ( depending on the kind of bean ) 2 1/2 hours at a low simmer . Then you have the acid issue . Most chili is tomato-based , and even those that are n't usually have some other sort of acid . I 'm going to go out on a limb and guess that yours does . Acid does inhibit the softening of beans , and this can work for you or against you . Many ( non-texan ) chili cooks find that the acid keeps the pre-cooked beans from turning to mush . On the other hand , the amount of tomatoes in most chilis means that you could boil for weeks , and those beans will probably remain hard . Lastly , I 'm guessing that you do n't cook with dried beans too often . I do n't mean that to be an insult -- I 've actually done the exact same thing as you , and found myself coping with a pot of chili full of hard beans that I owed to a football party . The reason that I bring this up is that , believe it or not , dried beans actually go stale . If they 're old , they may never soften . As I mentioned , I did have this same thing happen to a pot of my chili . If memory serves , I sat there fishing out each bean for probably longer than it was worth .
That white stuff is albumen , the same protein that makes the white of chicken eggs . The albumen is part of the salmon 's blood , which means that your fillet was fresh . A trick for dealing with it was developed by Bruno Goussault while collaborating with chef Michel Richard from Citronelle in DC : soak the salmon pieces in an ice cold brine . The <URL> that told the story recommends soaking the salmon fillets for ten minutes in a 10 % brine ( by weight ) . To make the <URL> , dissolve three tablespoons of Kosher salt for every cup of ice cold water and make as many cups as you need .
There can be several factors here . The first is the flour . Are you really using bleached cake or pastry flour ? If you are using all purpose flour , especially if it is unbleached ( and bleached is banned in some countries ) , you will get a more yellowish hue of the dough . This is the most likely culprit . If you are in Europe , try mixing 405er flour ( or the local equivalent ) with starch in a ratio of 2:1 . The second is the color of the filling . The human visual system does not work in an absolute way , it constructs color relative to all information available . So if there is higher color contrast , and especially more yellow in the filling , the outside will be whiter . The original recipe requires you to use a custard powder with coloring . If you skipped that ingredient , or used an uncolored powder , or your eggs were not as dark as those in the original recipe , then your filling was maybe paler than the original , not creating enough contrast for the bun to appear white . You can add some food coloring of your own if you do n't have access to that powder . The third thing to keep in mind are your expectations . Color gets changed a lot from the capture in a digital camera to your perception on your monitor . Contrast gets changed in-camera and in post production , and most monitors are set up in a way which overemphasizes contrast . It is entirely possible that you would have a different impression of the buns if you saw them in person , than from the picture you are seeing in the blog .
Heinz and some other companies sell a product that they call ' chili sauce ' , which might be what you 're looking for . It 's a tomato-based sauce , with some spices and seasoning , but it 's not particularly spicy . If you have access to Dutch &amp; German ingredients , you might replace it with one of the thicker shashlik sauces ( aka ' curry ketchup ' ) . If you have access to UK ingredients , you might try brown sauce . If you wanted to make it yourself from scratch , see <URL>
I think the truffles that are exported are of better quality on average than what you 'll find on the european market . I 've never tried the american ones consciously ( they 're not imported to Europe as far as I know ) . You could also take into account that the fresher the truffles are the better the quality , so in theory it would be better to eat american truffles in the USA and european truffles in Europe . Given the mind boggling price differences and the supposed high quality of the stuff <URL> , you 're likely going to be well off picking the local stuff .
White chocolate <URL> is at least 3.5 % milk fat and 14 % milk solids . As far as I know , the EU uses the same definition as the FDA ( US ) . So , nothing vegan can legally be sold as " white chocolate " . That said , there are a great many non-dairy white chocolate substitutes , usually made with any combination of soy milk , maltodextrin , vanilla , and saturated/hydrogenated fat ( palm oil , shortening , etc. ) , among other ingredients/additives of course . They do n't taste the same as real white chocolate , but then again , white chocolate is n't real chocolate to begin with , so it ca n't hurt to experiment with some of the products out there - which can be easily sourced with a Google search , as one of the comments indicates .
One of the most important factors in achieving a fudgy , chewy brownie is cooking time . Essentially you should be slightly undercooking the brownies so they do n't dry out in the middle . Use the cooking times given in recipes as a guide only , because each oven will vary . 5-10 minutes before they ' should ' be ready , start testing the centre of the brownies with a toothpick or cake tester : unlike a cake , you want a good amount of sticky crumbs on the skewer ( but very little liquid batter ) . Remember that the cooking process will continue even once the brownies are out of the oven . Another factor that contributes to chewiness is the sugars you use : adding some sticky , dense , dark sugar will help create a fudgy brownie . The brownie recipe I use , which is pretty damn good , uses 1.5 cups of granulated sugar and .5 cup of packed dark brown sugar .
As baka has said , more volatile components of the wine will be released with more wine surface exposed . Also , this not only releases aroma but also helps the wine to " breathe " and oxidize , which is why you open the red wine bottle half an hour before serving it ( so that this process starts ) , and why you might pour the wine into a decanter . This process accentuates the flavors and aromas of the wine . It is not very much necessary with younger , colder served wines ( e.g. vinho verde ) . In young , sparkling wine , a larger glass will disperse the bubbles faster , as well as warming it . This is undesireable , hence the smaller , narrower glasses . Aged white wine should behave similarly to aged red wine , although it does n't need to breathe as much .
end question
start question
Is it possible to oversoak wood chips for smoking ?
No , it is n't possible to over soak wood chips , chunks , planks , or any other size that you want to throw on the grill ( within reason , I would n't soak them for weeks because the water would get scummy ) . In fact , the directions given often grossly underestimate optimal soaking time . I assume this is because the manufacturer does n't want to scare people off by saying " soak for 12-24 hours before use . " Wood smokes better when it 's wet . If it 's dry , it catches on fire and produces less smoke for a shorter period of time . What you really want is for the wood to be thoroughly wet so that it smolders rather than flames and produces lots of smoke for a long time . As you would expect , the larger the piece of wood , the longer it will smoke and the longer you need to soak it . My general soak times are as follows : Small Chips - These are very small , coin sized . Generally get totally saturated in 2-3 hours . Large Chips - Between Small Chips and Chunks . Soak for 12 - 24 hours . Chunks - These tend to be about 1/2 to a whole fist sized . These want to soak for at least 24 hours . Planks - For plank smoking . Soak for 8 - 12 hours . You can always soak for less time , you just wo n't get quite as much smoke production . Judge the need based on what you 're cooking . If you want a little smoke on a steak that you 're only cooking for 5-8 mins , then you do n't need to worry about it . If you 're trying to smoke salmon , it matters more . If you want to smoke a butt for 12 hours , it matters a lot .
TL : DR answer - not really . The beaten egg whites are an integral component of the souffle , forming both the rising action of the mixture ( by capturing air within the protein network of the eggs ) and and the structure . The recipe you linked to is more of a cake than a souffle , even using the creaming method commonly seen in cake production . While other ingredients can capture air as well ( such as the gluten formation from flour in a cake or bread ) , they change the nature of this dish so much that it 's no longer recognizable as a souffle . Adding baking soda unfortunately wo n't help in this particular instance as the rise caused by this is due to the carbon dioxide gas released . The souffles have that part covered with the air bubbles released during baking - what they need is the structure to trap them in . I hope that helped to clarify !
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
Yes , the problem will be the vinegar . Vinegar is acidic and you 'll end up with mushy meat . 48 hours is almost certainly too long . For a vinegar base , I try not to push it over 8 hours and that 's only if really necessary . A few hours is typically fine . Right now , you 've got to consider how to save the meat . I 'd freeze the meat right now . Freeze the meat with the marinade ( which seems like such a waste for 40 ' ish hours , but better that than mushy steak ) . When ready to cook , take it out and let the marinade do its business as it thaws . I 'd thaw it in ziplock under running water ( quicker than the fridge ) and let it marinade a short time and go on the grill . If you let it sit in any unfrozen stage too long , you 'll get mushy steak with a vinegar marinade .
Two things - If the marinade is very strong or salty then the meat could simply become over flavored . If the marinade includes a meat digesting enzyme such as papain then leaving it too long could turn the meat to mush .
Many people have strong opinions on when to apply a rub -- some say to allow at least a few hours and preferably overnight . Others literally apply it as they are putting them in the smoker/oven . Since people do it both ways and both claim to end up with terrific , moist ribs , whatever effect this might have is probably small . It may change aspects of the " glazing " effect that a rub might give , depending on what is in the rub . A rub left on for a longer period will become more mushy and more like a paste or a glaze/sauce , while a rub put on fresh before cooking wo n't have time to become as moist . You will get slightly more flavor penetration with a longer rest , but there are diminishing returns there too after the first hour or two . I do n't have experimental evidence to back this up , but I think the " early rub will dry things out " argument is pretty flimsy from a food science perspective . It is true that rubs which contain significant amounts of salt , sugar , or other hydrophilic substances will cause some moisture to come out of the meat . On the other hand , most people tend to cook ribs for quite a few hours anyway ( and some smoke them for many hours ) , so the rub will have plenty of time to draw out that moisture regardless of whether you put it on ahead or time or right before cooking . It 's not like you 're salt-curing the meat and leaving the salt on it for months . Once the salt ( and/or sugar ) draws out the moisture from the outermost thin layer of meat , it generally takes much longer for moisture to migrate from inner parts of the meat . That surface layer of meat will release most of its moisture within an hour or so after you put salt or sugar or whatever on . So , even if you put your rub on immediately before putting it in the smoker , that moisture will tend to be drawn out in the first part of the cooking time . Adding a few more hours or even overnight to the rub should n't result in significantly more moisture loss from the meat 's interior -- and the exterior will always dry out a bit as it cooks anyway . Moreover , you are n't generally draining away moisture from the surface . With ribs , you often have them wrapped up to rest , which means the meat sits in that moisture . And guess what ? About 10-15 minutes in , the brine produced by the moisture combined with the salt in the rub will begin to break down the outer muscle structure of the meat and cause it to absorb more moisture than usual , so much of that liquid lost will be reabsorbed back into the meat within an hour or so . ( Note that the <URL> with some of the other spice compounds which are in the rub , so there is perhaps some flavor advantage to applying the rub at least a little in advance . On the other hand , again this mostly affects only the outermost layer of meat , so more than an hour or two probably wo n't make more significant changes in the flavor . ) If you 're talking about searing a steak , when you salt it might have some impact , since you generally <URL> at the point at which moisture is being released at the maximum rate . But for ribs or anything with a long slow cooking time ? It 's really not a big issue . As mentioned above , the larger effect will generally be what happens to the rub as it sits on the meat for many hours . You may find that the change in texture there may change the final appearance or texture of the outer surface . But the idea that the interior will dry out significantly ? It does n't seem likely .
Do n't bother soaking them . Dried hardwood does n't readily soak up water , so for this to work you 'll have to either soak for a rather long time or start with green wood ... but if you 're using green wood then you do n't need to soak it . For good , consistent smoke , you want to control heat and airflow : <URL> , you can control heat by simply moving the chips away from the coals . If the design of your BBQ allows , you can do as he suggests ( horizontal separation ) ; otherwise , try placing the chips in a pan above the coals . For airflow , you can adjust the vents on your BBQ - if you 're getting flair-ups with the lid on , chances are you 're letting too much air through . You can also limit airflow to the chips themselves by wrapping them in a packet fashioned from sturdy aluminum foil with holes punched in it ( but you 'll still want to separate them from the coals , or you 'll just burn through the foil and be back where you started ) .
I have also not tasted hoop cheese . All descriptions of it that I can find describe it as unsalted , pressed cottage cheese . While you can definitely press out extra liquid from acid set cheeses , the proteins are not as firmly set and the texture is going to be very different . I think you will find that using rennet is not much more difficult and opens a wide variety of cheese experiments . Junket also provides quite a few recipes and I have had success with many of them : <URL> This recipe for cottage cheese uses the bacteria in ( fresh ) buttermilk to acidify the milk . Then with the addition of rennet a curd forms that is much firmer than what you get with acid alone . Making their cottage cheese recipe and pressing it into a hoop should be easy enough for you . I use the end cap of 6 " PVC pipe with holes drilled in it as my mold and bungee cords for the press . For an excellent page on home cheese production in general check out this page : <URL>
Good lord no . You have no idea how the drumsticks were treated or with what chemicals ( cyanide derivatives are often used in pressure-treated woods , for example ) . No . No no no no no .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
I usually serve these as an appetizer , they 're so good with a smoky seasoning blend . Using canned beans is where your process is falling down . Use fresh beans that you soaked and cooked . The age of the beans are the deciding factor between chalk and cream . I like to use a crock pot and all manner of seasonings . Other things I 've found : Slightly overcook the beans . It makes them softer , and therefore creamier . Let them drain completely , while still wet dredge with garbanzo flour ( or some flour ) . Thoroughly dry them on a flat surface . Fry on pretty high heat using as little oil as possible , and not for very long , either . Another note : I usually make two or three large batches of beans every couple of months . I separate the yield out into 1-2 cup servings and freeze them . I have found that beans which were frozen , but not for very long have that delightful creamy center when fried , but not as crisp an exterior .
The biggest concern with fish caught in the wild is the presence of parasites . You 'll have to look up which species of parasite are present in the species of fish that you wish to use , and treat it accordingly . Tapeworm is common in salmon , and several other varieties of fish have various parasites capable of infecting a human host . Most sites I 've seen suggest that you need to freeze the fish at -4 degrees Fahrenheit ( -20 Celcius ) or colder for 7 days or -31 Fahrenheit ( -35 Celcius ) for 15 hours to guarantee any parasites are dead . Many home freezers may have difficulty keeping temperatures this low . Also the freezing process , if done in a home freezer , has a good chance of ruining the taste and the texture of the meat . You may want to look into flash freezing methods to avoid this . Supposedly there are certain species of fish that do not have any parasites , or at least no parasites capable of infecting humans . You will want to do your own research on this to be certain . Beyond parasites bacteria are the other biggest concern . Make sure you put the fish into a cooler immediately , and freeze it as soon as you return home . Sources : <URL> <URL>
When you approach the low end of the low-and-slow cooking methods , a concern that is normally not an issue in faster cooking methods starts becoming important : how long will it take the food to get to safe temperature ? You want the food to be above 140 F ( 60 C ) for the entirety of the cooking process , for safety , although having that happen instantly is not possible . Therefore , you want the temperature to get to that threshold as quickly as reasonably possible , especially for the surface of whole cuts of meats where the greatest risk of pathogens are . Therefore , I would urge you to err on the side of caution and safety , and use the extra coal at the beginning of cooking until the food reaches at least 140 F . Once it gets out of the danger zone , and into the safe zone , you have much more freedom . However , barbecue is far from exact . I would not worry about a 10 or even 15 F disparity . Your final outcome will likely be indistinguishable . Still , once the food is safe , if you wish to allow the temperature to be somewhat lower , that is the time to do so .
What about using mochi , an Asian pounded rice paste ? It 's a similar -- though not identical -- texture , it 's available in sweet and savory forms , and it 's held together by the starch in rice rather than anything gelatin , so it 's vegetarian . You can get plain unflavored mochi at many Asian food stores ; it may take some looking , as it 's more often sold sweet and filled with bean paste in the US . I 've had it in savory Korean dishes and I believe it 's used in savory Korean dishes as well .
No , it 's not worth the bother . Get a few cans of crushed tomatoes and simmer them slowly with whole garlic cloves and some chopped onion for a few hours until it 's thickened ( but not like paste ) . Season and you 're good to go .
I would say you could use it once , and probably just to make refrigerator-type , quick pickles . The problem is that you have no way to determine acidity or salt levels once you remove the previously pickled items . Of course it should look clean and clear . If you were previously doing a lactic acid fermented pickle , some of the liquid could be used to jump start your next ferment .
There are at least three potential downsides : wood is quite light , so you will not get the benefit of added weight of the pestle for crushing ; many wooden mortars have a smooth texture , which will not aid in the grinding as much as , e.g. , a coarse ceramic mortar ; and wood is porous -- increasingly so as it dries over time -- so it may have the tendency to pick up the flavors of its contents .
Even if it is possible , it is a very , very bad idea as you do n't know what cultures or pathogens are in the already spoiled milk . Fermented dairy products should only be made from fresh milk in good condition -- and in most cases , that milk should be pasteurized while fresh absolutely as soon as possible from the source cows .
end question
start question
Need to remove germ from garlic or onion ?
So ... I was always taught that you remove it because it 's bitter . I generally remove it if it 's big enough . However , there seems to be some contention as to whether this is true ( and to what degree it 's true ) . See : <URL> and <URL> In short , there are mixed teachings as to whether you should remove it . But essentially the germ DOES affect the taste of garlic . Some call it bitter , some call it " more garlicky " . Ruhlman suggests that if you 're hitting it with heat immediately , then there is n't a point in removing it . If he 's doing something that will have the garlic sitting around , then he does n't . From this what I 'd suggest ( and what I 'm going to try doing from now on ) is to ignore it and if you notice a difference in taste , or more importantly find the result objectionable . then take it out next time . Otherwise do n't bother as you wo n't know the difference .
The smell of garlic is due to sulfur compounds . When you rub your hands against stainless steel , the iron of the stainless steel will react with some small volume of those compounds , but much more will remain in your hands . Rubbing your hands against an iron object <URL> . The sulfur smell compounds are water soluble to slightly water soluble , so rinsing your hands in cold water and then soap and water should work as well as the recipes suggesting Noxzema , lemon juice , salt , baking soda , raw potatoes , tomato paste solutions , or mouthwash .
Whipped vegetable shortening with powdered sugar . I can make it up a week in advance , probably even longer , and keep it in an airtight container in a cool place . And it has the advantage that it 's pure white ( if you use imitation vanilla extract , or lemon extract ) , so you can get vibrant colors on whatever you 're decorating . If you make too much , you can then make flowers and let them dry out , then store those for a year or more . Here 's the recipe I use , that I got from Jane who taught two of the cake decorating classes I took : Put all ingredients except the water into a mixer . Add 3/4 c. water , and slowly add more to make the consistancy of your choice . Mix on low speed 'til mixed , then on # 6 or 8 for 6 to 7 minutes . Consistency should be " creamy " -- like cream cheese when soft . Stiff icing should be creamy also .
There are lots of different techniques for preparing rice , and all are equally valid . They do lead to different results , but it is up to you do decide which one you prefer . There is not one " right " way we can recommend over the other . Yes , there is a noticeable difference . Rice pre-fried in fat has a different texture . It is less fluffy , and can be even slightly slimy if cooked in too much water . It does not dry out as quickly as rice cooked in watery liquid only . It also has a slightly different taste , especially if you use a non-neutral oil . But this difference in aroma may be too subtle to notice if your paella is heavily seasoned , it is most pronounced when the rice is cooked on its own and served as a side .
It depends on the preparation . I have the Creative Whip which comes with a little recipe book and not all of the recipes demand that you chill after charging . For example the " instant chocolate mousse " is really instant . The only liquid ingredient is the cream itself which is already chilled , and the gas expansion inside the canister chills it even further , so it 's ready right away . On the other hand , if you 're making something with gelatin , carrageenan , or any other gelling agent which needs to set , then you 'll obviously need to fill the canister while it 's still a liquid ( otherwise it 's going to be rather hard to whip , not to mention hard to get into the canister itself ! ) and then chill to set it . Basically it 's simply a question of how cold your liquid is before it goes into the canister vs. how cold you want it to be when you serve it . If you can chill it to the correct temperature beforehand , and that wo n't prevent you from whipping it ( as it would with an actual gel ) , then by all means chill first . In the specific case when you 're using creams and/or cheeses to make a mousse or espuma , you almost never need to chill it in the whipper itself - although it wo n't hurt either . By the way , if you 're making a gel or anything else that needs to set , it 's best to chill it gradually in an ice water bath and shake it frequently as it chills , in order to keep the gas dispersed . If you just charge it and stick it in the fridge , you may find it very hard to dispense afterward .
Flaxseed oil goes rancid quickly , and refrigeration slows down this process . So , yes , you should do as the label says ( usually a good idea anyway ) and keep it in the fridge .
Black garlic is not a substitute for regular garlic , you add black garlic to get a different result . I would never say use 2 cloves of black garlic for every 1 regular or any other ratio because the changes are so fundamental that they really are totally different ingredients . The question is how much black garlic flavor you want , and only you can answer that . I 'd suggest that you taste it when it 's close to being done and if you want more add more then .
I found this very informative article from the Crown Prince company , an anchovy canner and distributor . Apparently the reason for cold storage has to do with the preservation process and product quality : <URL> Anchovies are a " semi-preserved " product . This means that they are not sterilized by either cooking or pasteurization . Instead , anchovies are preserved by a salting process whereby salt is used to control bacteria which would otherwise render a canned product unusable . The anchovies remain in the salt until just before canning . Therefore , suppliers do not pack ahead of order . Our anchovies are not packed until just prior to shipment . Because they are " semi-preserved " , anchovies will eventually break down and become mushy . The cans may even puff . This occurs because there is a non-harmful bacteria that survives in salt . This bacteria can be inconvenient because when it grows it can eventually form a gas which will puff the can . We repeat that this is not harmful to humans , but is most inconvenient . Heat will hasten the growth of the non-harmful bacteria . Anchovies should always be stored in a cool place , preferably in the refrigerator . Their shelf life when refrigerated is about 18 months . If you do not plan on consuming the anchovies or paste immediately after purchasing , we recommend storing them in the refrigerator . It is important to note that puffed anchovy cans are not indicative of a faulty canning procedure , but rather of improper storage subsequent to canning . Occasionally , customers complain of a white substance in the can . Often , salt collects around the edges of the fish . This is harmless , as it is only salt .
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
I have seen recipes that call for chopped white onions instead of pearl onions , which leads me to believe it is feasible . The texture might be different ; when cooked , pearl onions tend to have a different sort of bite to them , much like a grape , revealing a burst of flavor after a slight resistance , whereas chopped fullsize onions tend to be more one-note and soft . I do n't know for sure what pickling does to the texture , but if it is beneficial to use whole onions for a similar effect , you 'll lose that . I suspect the flavor penetration would be greater , however , due to the cutting .
It has been said : Better safe than sorry . You have n't measured the absolute sugar or acidity levels . Freezing it will do no harm . -- <URL> <URL> I 'm definitely not an expert with baking , but I 've worked with fruits in other contexts . The only time I would be worried about freezing would be if I added oil , like for a marinade or such . In your context I think freezing is fine , and sounds like it would be a convenient way to make larger batches to reuse throughout the year . PS : That puree sounds awesome , I might have to try that to marinate some chicken or pork chops !
My opinion - I have n't done rigorous testing : Canning softens the interior of the peach but when I have ( in my laziness ) left the skins on they stay tough and quite unpleasant tasting . I doubt it has any effect on the longevity of the product but it would make it a little less pleasant and versatile .
Take a clean kitchen towel ( not a terry towel , a dish towel ) , place the peanuts on it , fold it up , then rub the peanuts vigorously through the towel . The friction should remove the skins . You can then pass the whole lot through a colander to winnow out the skins .
Cut the sprout end off . Place the cut end on the board , slice the onion in half vertically ( i.e. place your knife on the root and cut down ) If the outer skin layer is nice and thick , pull it off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the outer skin is papery , pull it and one layer of onion flesh off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the first layer of onion flesh is slightly dimpled or has a kind of matte finish , it 's probably turning ' skinny ' . Strip that off too .
This phenomenon affects fruits much worse than vegetables actually . The FDA published a report that cut or peeled fruits will lose half their vitamin C content in 1-2 weeks . Over 10-25 % of this loss will occur in fruits in only 5 days . For vegetables there exists a similar , albeit less pronounced effect . When cut the flesh inside of the vegetable is exposed to oxygen and the protection provided by the peel or covering is lost . That being said , the process of these vegetables losing nutrients is not an immediate one . Realistically the loss that occurs between you cutting the vegetables and placing them in a salad is probably distinctly minimal . I would n't worry too much about the nutrient loss as long as you are n't cutting the vegetables and then storing them for a long period of time . See : <URL>
It 's not drastically important in making it workable , it 's more important in the texture of the finished result . When you roll out pastry dough , you are created interleaving layers of fat and the flour/water mix . When you cook it , the fat melts , leaving pockets in the dough , causing it to form flaky layers . This results in a crisp , light pastry . For this to happen , the fat must remain as solid as possible until cooking . If the fat melts and blends with the flour and water before cooking , you will have a dense , cardboard-like pastry . Also , warm pastry dough tends to become sticky and hard to work with .
Maybe ! Flour is unusually variable in how densely it will settle , so this can make a big difference for some recipes . The purpose of sifting is to make the amount of flour in a given volume reliable . ( If you are measuring by weight , you do n't need to sift . ) By moving around the sifted flour , or pouring it from one container into another , you are changing the way it is packed . Therefore , you can easily " unsift " it in the course of normal handling . Proper sifting is done straight into the measuring device .
Contrary to what several folks have said , garlic is not crushed primarily to help peel the skin . For example , garlic can be peeled easily with the clove intact , by cutting the small hard circular bottom of the clove ( the part that 's attached to the base , opposite to the pointy end ) . This will help loosen the skin , which should then come off very easily or will separate if you gently slide the blade of your knife in and loosen it . While it certainly is true that crushing helps separate the skin , making it easier to peel ( perhaps some folks might do it for that reason at home ) , that is n't the reason why professional cooks do it or the reason why recipes suggest it . Why crush garlic ? Garlic is primarily crushed to release its oils , which in turn infuses subtly different flavours to the dish than if you did n't crush . <URL> above explains the chemical reaction : ... within the garlic cells are alliin and alliinase , which when combined , form allicin , which is the ' strong ' flavor ... You might also find <URL> from the Washington Post , where the author talks about the art of cooking with crushed garlic in Italian restaurants , a really good read . Specifically , the author addresses some of these key points which are very relevant here . 1 . Crushed vs. Minced From basic physics , something that is broken up into several tiny bits has a much larger total surface area than the whole intact piece . Since the oils extrude from the cut surface , it stands to reason that minced garlic will release them sooner and readily , often leading to a more pungent taste than desired . In addition , minced garlic can be quite temperamental and you might often end up over cooking/burning . As the author notes : In its customary minced or chopped form , garlic can impart a pungent flavor that is difficult to harness . Add it too early to a sauté or stew and garlic burns and becomes acrid . Add it in the latter stages of cooking and the garlic steams or boils , leaving it raw-tasting and unpleasant . On the other hand , slightly crushed garlic is more versatile and heat tolerant . Left whole and partially smashed ( just enough to release its powerful oils ) , garlic adapts to a range of high-heat techniques , cooking steadily and lending a mellow richness to a dish . 2 . Usage in dishes Crushed garlic is pretty standard in several Italian dishes . The advantage of having one or two large crushed pieces ( in addition to those mentioned above ) is that you can easily remove them from the dish once you 're satisfied with the aroma/taste of the dish . This can be extremely annoying to do with minced garlic . Some of the dishes that are enhanced by using crushed garlic are : In [ roasts , stews , quick meals and stir-fries ] , smashed garlic cloves are remarkably flexible , absorbing high heat and in turn giving off subtle but substantial flavor . What happens when you crush ? To answer why crushing garlic works , let me quote a bit from <URL> to the very popular question on <URL> ( since we all understand onions better ) : The enzymes and amino acids involved in producing the Onion Lachrymatory Factor ( seriously ! ) are normally contained in the cells , and only become a problem when released in volume . Using a sharper knife will avoid mangling cell walls , creating more clean separations between layers , and reducing the amount of enzymes released . Garlic , along with onions , shallots and leeks belong to the group of plants ( genus ) called <URL> and being very closely related , the above is more or less true . Indeed , it makes sense that if you want large volumes of oils/enzymes , you 'd do exactly the opposite of the above advice , which is to crush it and break all the cell walls ! This also aids in the mixing of the chemicals per Joe 's comment above . Note that although a large volume is " released " or ready to be released due to the crushed cell walls , they make their way to the dish slowly because of the smaller surface area .
Yes , preheating warns up the entire interior of the oven which is important for keeping the air hot such as when you open the door . It helps the oven bounce back to full heat much sooner . If you do n't preheat , it will take several minutes before the oven reaches proper cooking temps , and interfere with even heating . If you want to see the difference most dramatically , bake some chocolate chips . First without any preheating and then when those are supposed the be done , do another batch and bake them for the same amount of time . If you are baking something for an hour or more , it may not make much difference , but shorter baking times can be dramatically affected .
Cooking is not as effective at removing alcohol as many people think ; the alcohol and water evaporate or boil together . At a simmer , it might only take 10-15 minutes to get rid of half of the alcohol , but getting rid of 90 % of it takes more like two hours . See this <URL> for more detail . In any case , a microwave can certainly simmer or boil liquids , and the alcohol/water evaporation does n't care about what equipment you used to cook it , so you certainly could do use a microwave to reduce the amount of alcohol in wine . However , it does n't give you nearly as much control as a stove ; even if you use a reduced power , it 'll tend to boil on and off as it cycles the power . And microwaving for extended time periods is a pretty awkward method . So in general , I 'd suggest doing this kind of thing with conventional cooking methods , especially if it 's as part of a dish . You can use the cooking time of a stew to help reduce the alcohol , for example . And even if you want to remove more alcohol than the cooking time of your dish permits , a pot on the stove gives you much better control .
end question
start question
Can chicken not completely cooked then cooled be fully cooked later ?
Please do n't bother . Meat spending any significant amount of time in the danger zone of 40 F - 140 F ( 4.4 C - 60 C ) that has not been fully cooked should never be re-chilled to be served later . Given that Salmonella can be found throughout poultry , not just on the surface , and that it 's <URL> that your poultry had some level of a pathogen present , you should n't risk it . Your not so thorough cooking , likely to an internal temperature of 120 F - 130 F , has basically heat-shocked the bacteria present imbuing them with a much higher than usual heat resistance . On top of that it likely took at least a few hours to get the meat back below 40 F ( at which they can still grow , albeit slowly ) , so depending on the initial amount of infection and the time spent in the danger zone you likely have a bacteria population minimally in the hundreds of millions , possibly in the billions . In <URL> of mine I give a lot of detail regarding the relation between temperature and duration and it 's effect on Salmonella . The important take-away is that with any reasonable temperature death is not instant , it 's merely a percentage of the population that is killed at any given temperature and duration . As few as 100,000 Salmonella cells can get you sick , and it takes much fewer for E. Coli . So even if you 're killing five-9 's worth of bacteria , is it really worth it ? I 'm all for eating rare meat ( not poultry ) , but only if I 'm confident in the quality and handling of said meat before it reaches my plate . Think of it this way , if the meat were exposed to these conditions before it reached your plate it would be considered gross negligence , and would likely result in a recall . The guidelines that many agencies publish to safely cook meat all assume typical levels of contamination , given proper handling ( though they do err greatly on the side of safety ) . They simply are n't accurate when you are starting with meat that has a population large enough to sicken or kill a small village . I 'm not even going to begin to address the toxic waste products produced by some pathogens , which are not destroyed by heat . Throw it out and prevent this in the future by being sure to cook it all the way through . It sounds like you likely just grabbed the chicken out of the refrigerator and threw it directly on the heat , this can lead to the exterior cooking too quickly before the interior has time to cook . Get in the habit of setting your meats out for 30m to an hour so that it reaches room temperature throughout , but cook it immediately , do not re-chill it .
Make the bread all the way through . You can even let the first rise happen . Drop your yeast to about half . Oil a bowl , drop in the dough , spin once to get the ball of dough covered with the oil and then put plastic wrap over the bowl , or a damp cloth ... and plastic wrap . Put the bowl in the refrigerator . The refrigerator slows down the yeast without killing it , which also increases the flavor of the bread ( over night cool low yeast methods for bread are considered the " right " way to make bread ) . In the morning , pull out the bread , press out any large bubbles , roll it around and let it come to life again . I usually punch it down one more time and then let it rise in the pan or on a sheet depending on what kind of bread I am making , then bake as normal . In your case , because you 're doing a stuffed loaf , assuming there is a rise before the stuffing , THAT is the point where you will start the morning . Everything before the pre-stuff rise , the refrigerator IS the pre-stuff rise , pull it out , let it warm , punch it down , stuff , put in the pan , let rise , bake .
Depending on the temperature in your fridge , cooked lentils will be safe to eat for 2 to 5 days when using a sealed container , filled with the cooking water . By immersing them , your lentils wo n't dry out and they 'll be ready to use whenever you need them - just drain the amount you need . If you 've got sufficient freezer space you could also freeze the cooked lentils . Just prepare a whole lot of lentils and divide them in individual portions to put in small freezer bags . Make sure you push out any air before sealing the bag . Freezed lentils will be fine anywhere from 4 up to 6 months . However , I would strongly recommend using dried lentils , which I 'm sure you 'll be able to find in Copenhagen . Just make a habit of soaking the amount of lentils you need for your breakfast and you 'll never have to worry about storing leftovers . It 's a lot cheaper too ! But above that , dried lentils tend to taste much better than canned lentils . :)
This depends partially on the cooking technique and the shrimp variety/size ( = > thickness of the shell ) . If the shrimp is deep fried the shell can turn crispy and is super fun to eat . However , if boiled , the shells are chewy and extremely unpleasant - in this case you have to peel them . I am not familiar with the spicy garlic shrimp , but you can just try if the shell is crunchy , is pleasant to eat , and does not require excessive painful chewing - go for it , if not return to your old practice of pealing it and just licking the flavoring of the shells .
That bit of the Wikipedia article is unsourced , but <URL> and says that spores may be present even in pasteurized honey . ( I never would have thought that . ) I would n't expect the cooking of the crackers to damage the spores significantly more than the pasteurization . I ca n't say for sure that there will be live spores in the crackers , but it 's a definite possibility and if you 're concerned about this then you should not risk it .
It will double in size when it is cooked , however the longer it is kept in the liquid the bigger it will grow until ultimately all liquid has been absorbed . A trick is to cook it separately , drain it , and toss with olive oil so it does n't clump . Then , add it to the rest of the soup , stirring well just before serving .
Usually that would mean potatoes that have been simmered to fork tender , but you could use potatoes that have been baked too . It 's faster to dice the potato before simmering , but for some things it actually tastes better ( tiny difference ) to simmer first , then dice . Be careful if you dice first , they will overcook and become waterlogged quickly . If the recipe does n't specify , you can use peeled or unpeeled potatoes . I almost always prefer scrubbed , unpeeled potatoes . Do n't forget to salt the water ! EDIT : One more little note . 1/4 inch dice is small for simmering potatoes . If you do it that way , get them out of the water just before they are completely tender , carry-over cooking will get them the rest of the way . You might also want to rinse them in cold water to stop the cooking .
Use a <URL> . Just fill it up with a big handful of spinach , and give it a good squeeze in the sink , or over a bowl if you like to drink spinach water . It extracts a ton of liquid quickly , and is a breeze to clean up when you are done .
Raw Personally , growing up I 've usually just eat it raw after it 's ripened . That 's the only form that i 've a experienced a persimmon . Nonethless , a quick google reveals use as a sauce : This morning , I cooked the last of the mushy persimmons into a second batch of persimmon sauce . The first , served over bread pudding on a whim one evening , was so popular that it was deemed worthy of the last persimmons . It 's simple and delicious , primarily because , as I discovered , a generous serving of nutmeg and a bit of meyer lemon is the best way to season persimmon anything ! Source : <URL> In this article , Oakland Garden Kitchen blogger , also lists a recipes for <URL> published by David Lebovitz . Lebovitz has a very comprehensive <URL> . Persimmon in Bread In this blog , he provides an adaptation of <URL> , " Beard on Bread " , Persimmon Bread recipe . If you do n't like this version of the recipe . Epicurean has <URL> . Persimmon as an Entree Wine Press NW also once published a recipe of use of persimmon as a <URL> .
If you 're unthawing them in your refrigerator ( below 40 F ) , then you should be just fine . Most beasties do n't reproduce at any significant rate below 40 F . There is n't a clean cut off point because it depends entirely on the existing level of contamination present in your meat . You should be aware that repeated cycles of thaw/freeze will really damage the texture of your meat . The cells simply do not hold up to that .
Well there 's a few things . First , higher temperatures mean more volatile aroma and flavour compounds will be released , leaving a flatter-tasting stock . Second , boiling means more motion within the liquid , which makes it harder to skim off the protein scum which forms on the surface while a stock is cooking . In addition , some of the scum will just become reincorporated into the stock via a process similar to emulsion . Third , boiling induces faster breakdown of proteins and other particulate matter , leaving you with a cloudier end product . This is of course of very little concern for stocks which will end up incorporated into ( opaque ) soups or sauces . Of the three , only the first is of any real concern to home cooks . The other two issues are n't a huge deal at the restaurant level ( modulo need for clarity in consomme etc ) , particularly if the restaurant uses Superbags or algae filtration for clarifying stocks .
Assuming you 're talking about ggaennip , also known as shiso , it 's quite common to use it raw or salt-pickled . There are two common varieties , red and green-leafed , and to my taste there are some subtle differences between the Korean , Japanese , and maybe Vietnamese varieties . In Korea and Vietnam , ggaennip is frequently used to wrap foods ( ssam bap , for example , or the Vietnamese turmeric crepe ) . Shiso can be used to wrap foods , as a garnish , or chopped and served on some things , like grilled chicken ( yakitori ) as a flavor contrast . I do n't see much point in cooking shiso or yukari , but I 've cooked the red pepper and salt pickled version sold in cans ( or sometimes in the freshly made kimchi section ) by adapting it into a sort of variation on the mediterranean dolma . It retains much of the flavor , but is different than the raw leaf and mellower than just the pickle it starts from . I do appreciate shiso tempura , so I 'm not dogmatic about not-cooking , and there is certainly precedent for some cooked applications . I 've also made an agedashi-doufu , deep fried tofu in soup stock , which had shiso added before it was coated for deep frying . Shiso/gaennip is now popularly used in a drink that has added lemon juice or citric acid , but I 've only seen this as a concentrate or prepared beverage , so it 's possible that it requires some industrial techniques to retain the flavor when making a syrup . Dried salted shiso , called yukari in Japanese , is also used raw , but often mixed into warm rice either as a topping or to make onigiri .
A thermometer is the only way to be sure . For methods with a consistent level of heat ( stove , oven ) , you should able to learn the average cooking time , and outwards cues of color and texture that match the right internal temperature . Remember that these will vary with cooking method and temperature . Internally , the meat should look opaque and white . These are CUES of doneness , not guarantees . Use the thermometer . For methods with inconsistent levels of heat ( bbq , campfire ) , wait until it looks nearly done and then check with the thermometer . Err on the safe side . Prepared properly , chicken is a lot more forgiving of overcooking than steak .
They are not safe . An apple used in this manner is an aromatic , not to be eaten . I often use a combination of apple , cinnamon , rosemary and onion inside my bird . This stuff does not reach the necessary temperature to kill the little beasties that will hurt you . If it does , then you 'll have one dry bird .
I 'd say freeze nearly all of them uncooked and bake when ready . That way they go through only one cooking and maintain the fresh lasagna taste/feel . The sauce and and the cheese will freeze ok . Mozzarella is a pretty sensitive cheese and once it 's been baked , it 's not going to hold as well when thawed and re-warmed . In my experience it gets gummy and the fat runs off . You have much better chance of enjoying a good meal with the cheese frozen raw . Unfortunately , your noodles will likely take the hardest hit , but will likely fare better than going through two heat cycles . The ground beef and sausage will also fare better that way . The reason I suggested freezing MOST and not all , is that there are times when you 're behind the 8-ball , hungry , and do n't have the time to bake the sucker , and even ponder settling for dog-food . At that point having a silver bullet in the freezer is a bonus ;) and you 'll be ok with inferior lasagna .
All of the following are generally cooked items : Shrimp , ebi , available raw in sashimi , but almost always lightly poached . The poaching brings out sweet and subtle flavors otherwise masked by a metallic tang . It also prevents the highly perishable shrimp from losing texture to spoilage . Octopus , tako , available raw in sashimi when sliced very thinly , but otherwise poached lightly . The poaching reduces toughness and brings out additional flavors in an otherwise bland meat . Eel , unagi , as you noted , is ALWAYS grilled , and steamed . This is necessary to achieve the truly transcendent flavor and texture of unagi . In fact , the cooking of eel is such a challenge that it is generally a whole separate chef profession in Japan . Most eel comes from one of the professionals , because sushi cooks know they will never be able to match the quality themselves . Improperly cooked eel becomes tough and has unpleasant flavors . Raw , the blood of eels is even toxic ! Sweet egg omelet , tamago , is by definition cooked . This is not to say that raw egg does n't have a place in Japanese food though ; tamago kake gohan is a dish of raw egg on rice , with soy sauce . Cockle is lightly poached Crab , kani is always cooked because ... well eating raw crab meat is just vile . For further reading , I highly suggest the <URL> . Food Safety : Sushi is only prepared from the very freshest and highest quality seafood , and sushi chefs are trained to identify parasites and signs of spoilage . In addition , some areas ( including the EU ) require sushi to be frozen for 24 hours to kill parasites . If that was n't enough to help settle your stomach , the pickled ginger and wasabi served along with sushi are more than garnish or simple condiments ! Both ginger and wasabi have potent and documented anti-microbial and anti-parasite properties . Ginger is also well-known for combatting nausea . Source : the CRC Handbook of Medicinal Spices , <URL> for wasabi and <URL> for ginger . ( links are to Google Books copy ) .
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
I would say no . The function of the egg in the cake is to go in raw , mix with the other stuff , and once the raw egg has penetrated and coated the other ingredients thoroughly , bind it all together with that bouncy , sticky solidified eggy property which comes into existence as the egg cooks . Cooking the egg first all by itself , then adding to a cake would be like drying some crazy glue , then grinding up that hardened crust and putting the resulting powder between two things you want to stick together . The gluing action is all over when the glue has dried .
I did the experiment complete with pictures , unfortunately I managed to to screw up the pictures , but luckily I took notes . I started with two very similar eggplants , globe variety , Like this : I sliced each of the eggplants into five slices of equal width , discarding the ends . I took one slice of each eggplant to make five pairs to treat differently as far as salting . I pre-salted three of the pairs and drained them for one-half hour prior to baking . One of those pairs was rinsed and dried before baking , another pair was not rinsed - just thoroughly dried with a paper towel prior to baking . The third pair was left salted for baking . The fourth pair was salted ( not rinsed ) just before baking . The fifth pair was left unsalted . I baked all of the slices at 400F for 90 minutes , until they were just about done . At that point I rinsed one slice of each pair and returned all of the eggplant to the 400F oven for 10 more minutes . I weighed each of the pairs at the beginning and end of the experiment . After allowing the eggplant to come to " eating temperature " , I invited a friend to join me in the tasting . We concurred 100 % as to the palatability of each slice . Here are the results : So , bottom line , at least for this variety of eggplant , pre-salting and draining is an unnecessary step , although rinsing is necessary . Rinsing can be done after pre-salting and draining , before baking , or the eggplant can be rinsed at the end of baking . The difference in weight loss is negligible . Unfortunately , I was n't really able to gauge " bitterness " , because the eggplant was n't bitter to begin with . Based on this experiment , if I were to bake something like an Eggplant Parmesan ( unbreaded ) , I would salt the eggplant just before baking , rinse when the eggplant is nearly done , sauce , then continue baking until the final dish is done , cheese melted and slightly browned . As per Joe 's comment below , breading would be a different ball of wax , but I would certainly consider par-baking the salted eggplant to eliminate the draining step , rinsing is really necessary either way . A few minutes in the oven after rinsing the par-baked eggplant would give you an ideal slice , ready to bread . As a matter of fact , I 'm not crazy about eggplant , but my friend is . I 'll update this answer in a few days with the results of modifying Eggplant Parmesan by par-baking the salted slices prior to breading instead of draining the salted eggplant then breading . I suspect the prior method will produce better results in the same amount of time with less sogginess of the breading , as the moisture loss continues during the cooking of the pre-salted and drained eggplant . For that continuation of the experiment I will make two separate casseroles , and weigh both the par-baked eggplant and salted and drained eggplant prior to breading .
Iron is simply an element , so it can not be destroyed by cooking ( or generally temperature changes ) , as vitamins and other organic structures potentially can . Cooked spinach inevitably has a much lower water content , thus the relative density of all other components must increase . So gram for gram , it makes sense that cooked spinach should have a higher concentration of iron ( and possibly some other things ) than raw . However , the actual process of cooking does nothing to change the amount of iron .
end question
start question
How to store garlic ?
I always store mine in the pantry . I use it frequently enough that sprouting is rarely an issue . If you need it to last longer you can freeze garlic , though I have never needed to . Shelf Life An unbroken bulb of garlic can last 3-5 months in a cool ( 55-60 F ) dark place . Once broken , the remaining cloves last only about 7-10 days . Frozen , you can store garlic 10-12 months . Source : <URL>
Opened wine spoils fast . Red wine lasts about 1 day , white wine lasts about 3 days . You can prolong this slightly by putting it in the refrigerator , but only by a few days at most , and it depends on the wine . It may be " safe " to consume for much longer , but the taste will be way off , even for cooking purposes . If you 've opened it - finish it . ASAP . There are exceptions : " Cooking wines " such as cooking sherry and rice cooking wine have an array of preservatives added and will keep for much longer . But do n't leave perfectly good Chardonnay just sitting around to oxidize .
Of course you can store them in the fridge . When things start to smell bad , you should toss it . From what I remember off hand , every pancake or cornbread batter recipe I 've read says about a week is safe .
So ... I was always taught that you remove it because it 's bitter . I generally remove it if it 's big enough . However , there seems to be some contention as to whether this is true ( and to what degree it 's true ) . See : <URL> and <URL> In short , there are mixed teachings as to whether you should remove it . But essentially the germ DOES affect the taste of garlic . Some call it bitter , some call it " more garlicky " . Ruhlman suggests that if you 're hitting it with heat immediately , then there is n't a point in removing it . If he 's doing something that will have the garlic sitting around , then he does n't . From this what I 'd suggest ( and what I 'm going to try doing from now on ) is to ignore it and if you notice a difference in taste , or more importantly find the result objectionable . then take it out next time . Otherwise do n't bother as you wo n't know the difference .
Store them unwashed . Take out any " bad " ones . I 've had decent luck adding some paper towels to wick away extra moisture that seems to speed up the spoilage . <URL> . I have no idea who keeps a fridge empty enough that they can store full sheet pans in there , though . I 've never tried this , but <URL> . * shrug * Then of course , wash and freeze them spread out on a sheet pan ( to make it easier to separate later ) . I assume this is n't what you want to do , but it is very effective , depending on how you plan to use them .
You should always try to first bring hot quinoa to room temperature and follow the rest which you already mentioned . That works great , else if you try to pack it when it like burning hot , then the steam kind of stays in the packed room which later creates moisture and later spoils the food even though you keep it in the refrigerator . Best worked for me is by cooking quinoa in the night . Now I have lot of time to bring it to room temperature followed by pack it , store it and use it .
What I 've done in the past is mist some water on both sides of the bread slices , then put them in the microwave for 10-15 seconds ( alternatively , an oven set at 300F/150C for 5-10 minutes will do it too ) . Experiment with the amount of water ( but keep it low ) and cooking times . You should get much softer ( and warm ) bread slices out of it .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
Ana it really depends what sort of a dish you are making , and what texture and flavour you are after and the nature of garlic state : chopped , crushed , minced , pounded , etc. . If you want that pungent taste of garlic to be tasted , then you could add these crushed , chopped , sliced ones into your dish in the middle stage . If you do not want to taste too much of garlic , but just to go along , then minced ones are better and you may add a vee-bit at the earlier stage of the cooking . ( I had to edit this passage as I had written it swapping the stages ) Garlic can be used for both oil based and water based dishes . Even for salads without oil ! but with some flavours of lemon/lime and salt . We usually blend one raw garlic clove ( as per the quantity ) when making guacamole !!! So are you sauteing vegetables ? Or a gravy based dish ? Should the dish go alone or with another set of course based dishes ? =) ** Update as per OP 's edit : ---------- ** I must say it is quite rare to see chefs wanting to preserve the best pungent flavours of garlic/onions ... ;) <URL> another way : its flavor changes as chemicals break down and reform into novel aromatic compounds . It also becomes sweeter as large sugars and carbohydrates break down into simpler sugars like fructose and glucose , both of which taste quite sweet to us . The key to really great garlic flavor ? Use a combination of techniques as indicated in the above article . Personally I like to do couple of things . Marinating with crushed/chopped/sliced garlic would be in your favour . The longer main-ingredients wrapped with raw garlic before cooking , the better they absorb the flavour as well as aroma . This only works for fast/short cooking dishes . <URL> It all comes down to the chemistry of ingredients and heat - not to mention the experience you may get along !
Honey should be stored at 50-70 Degrees Fahrenheit Honey is similar in to olive oil and should be storaged between 50-70 Degrees Fahrenheit according to <URL> : Similar to olive oil , honey should be stored at a cool temperature between 50 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit . So , it 's best to store it away from your oven or stove . Also , it should not be refrigerated . Extreme changes in temperature will spoil the flavor of honey . Looks like this confirms that you may want to keep it in a cool place and away from hot temperature where it would cause honey to degrade in quality . <URL> continues : Remember Do not store honey in a refrigerator or near a stove or oven . Store it in an air-tight container . Thus , choosing an appropriate container is an important part of the equation . <URL> has a great article germane to this topic . Refrigerating Honey In the <URL> , it talks mentions the crystallizing state of honey if it is refrigerated in no way it harms the honey at all . Restoring honey from a crystalized form I know this is not related to your question . But something you asked in the comments . Apparently , honey can be <URL> : placing it in the microwave for 20 seconds can restore it from a crystallized form . Therefore , you can store it in the refrigerator and heat it afterwards . The downside is that if stored in <URL> . Proper Storage Container Since honey has <URL> in it it is difficult for microorganisms to grow . Thus , an airtight container is of utmost importance . If moisture gets in the container it can be an ideal environment for mold and yeast to grow . Honey should be thrown out if it <URL> Long Term Storage of Honey Honey can be stored for long periods of time without any issue . Over time , <URL> .
The discolored surface is a product of oxidation , the same thing that happens when you leave apple slices in the open air . Oxigen is a highly reactive molecule and it binds to anything it can find , in this case your steak . It is not rotten or unsafe to eat in any way , it just has an unpleasant color/texture when raw . Meat packaging is often filled with carbon dioxide , and since the oxygen is already binded to carbon it no longer reacts with the steak . The side effect of this is that your steak could have gone bad , but it still looks good . The pad just collects any fluid that might drip off the steak , again for aesthetic purposes . I 'd suggest to remove the wax paper and shrinkwrap it , this will prevent it from oxidizing .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
Yes , there is no real difference . Be aware that if you one from the hardware store , it should be one where the flame does not fluctuate when you tilt the torch . This usually happens with the very cheap ones . This becomes a big problem when you try to uniformly brown something . Aside from that and maybe " esthetically " I see no reason not to use one from the hardware store .
It rather depends on the temperature of the room . Where I live , in the summer it gets hot and humid , and they should n't be out on the counter during the day , or they ferment . In winter ( like spring in the northern US , 45-70 farenheit ) they can be out for two days with no problem . My recommendation would be to soak overnight for morning use , or to soak during the day for evening use . It also helps to change the water every few hours , though this is n't critical . If you refrigerate them with the water , you get an extra half-day . Refrigerating drained gets another day or so . Either way , they should always be shaded , never in direct sunlight . If they do spoil , you 'll know , as they 'll have a sour/yeasty smell to them .
If it 's high quality , store it in the refrigerator in an air-tight container and try to use it as quickly as possible so you can enjoy it while it 's fresh . There are always excuses to use loads of parmesan : cheese plates , pasta dinners , fondue , scones , grilled cheese sandwiches , etc. . It should last for 3-4 months in a sealed container in the fridge . As time goes on it will get drier , but that 's to be expected . If you ca n't eat it in time , consider giving some away to a friend . If you wanted , you could freeze it as well , but I would only use it for baking or melting once thawed as some flavor and a lot of texture will be lost .
This similar ( also has heavy cream ) recipe from epicurious recommends : " Room temperature , up to 3 days ; refrigerated , at least 3 months . " <URL> ... And that conforms to my personal opinion , as well . I would not freeze it .
Yes , it is different . Does it matter ? It depends . If you 're going to use garlic in a stew or anything else that would ' dissolve ' the regular garlic anyway , it does n't really matter all that much in my opinion . If you want to preserve the texture and/or create a more ' urgent ' garlic flavour in short-cooked food , I 'd go with fresh . Sidenote : most of the prepared garlic comes with additives , consider if you want to have those as a part of your diet . As for keeping time once opened : no worries really - bacteria really do n't like garlic all that much , so refrigerated you should have no problems hitting 6 + months .
Depending on the temperature in your fridge , cooked lentils will be safe to eat for 2 to 5 days when using a sealed container , filled with the cooking water . By immersing them , your lentils wo n't dry out and they 'll be ready to use whenever you need them - just drain the amount you need . If you 've got sufficient freezer space you could also freeze the cooked lentils . Just prepare a whole lot of lentils and divide them in individual portions to put in small freezer bags . Make sure you push out any air before sealing the bag . Freezed lentils will be fine anywhere from 4 up to 6 months . However , I would strongly recommend using dried lentils , which I 'm sure you 'll be able to find in Copenhagen . Just make a habit of soaking the amount of lentils you need for your breakfast and you 'll never have to worry about storing leftovers . It 's a lot cheaper too ! But above that , dried lentils tend to taste much better than canned lentils . :)
There are three signs you want to look for on garlic that indicate you may not want to use it : Signs of mold , especially black mold . Discard the garlic . Soft to finger pressure . It is rotten . Discard . Sprouted . While it is still safe to eat ( if it does n't have other issues ) , it may be bitter . Good garlic should be quite hard when pressed with your fingers , and preferably is not sprouted . Some people even remove the green core of partially or beginning to sprout garlic when they prep .
end question
start question
Why wooden sticks for ice cream bars ?
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
When I am using skim powdered milk and want more fat , I just replace some of the water in the recipe with heavy cream . Your recipe does n't have water , it already uses milk and cream . You could replace a little of the milk with cream to make up the difference . However , with all the cream and butter in that recipe , I doubt you would be able to notice the fat missing from the dry milk . I would just use your skim dry milk and not worry about it .
To expand michaels answer ( assuming that you want strawberry icecream and not pieces of strawberry mixed in ) . If you are making a custard ice cream , leave the amount of egg yolks the same , because you want the lecithin from them . Reduce the sugar somewhat , because fruit is sweet . Then decide how much fruit puree you want ( maybe 1/3 the volume of the dairy part ) . Adjust the volume of the dairy so that the liquid is correct . Adjust the fat of the dairy so that the fat content is correct . Example , you start with the recipe for vanilla ice cream French ( = custard ) style by Lebovitz . 1 cup ( 250ml ) whole milk ; A pinch of salt ; 3/4 cup ( 150g ) sugar ; 1 vanilla bean , split lengthwise ; 2 cups ( 500ml ) heavy cream ; 5 large egg yolks ; 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract This recipe has 185g fat ( I calculated with 30 % fat in the cream ) , 460g dry matter ( this is both fat and non-fat ) and yields 990g ice cream ( rounded a bit ) . Let 's say that you decide to use 200g strawberry puree . 200g strawberry puree has 10g sugars , 18g dry matter and no fat . A mixture of 5 yolks , 140g sugar ( if you want , you can look at the fructose sweetness coefficient and change the sugar accordingly , but I think this is n't so much of a problem if we just substitute the 10g from strawberries ) , 200g strawberry puree and some salt and vanilla has 25g fat , 225g dry matter and weighs 430g ( rounded ) . You could create two equation systems , the first for the total volume of the dairy mixture needed , and the second one for the ratio of cream to milk , and solve these to get to a mixture with the original ratio . fatamount/total = fatpercentage liquidamount/total = liquidpercentage fatpercentage + liquidpercentage + nonfatdrypercentage = 1 where you know fatamount , liquidamount and nonfatdrypercentage is around 0.1 ( actually 0.08 for milk only and 0.12 for cream only , but we do n't need so much precision ) . Solve for total , then calculate fatpercentage . 0.3 * cream + 0.04 * milk = fatpercentage * ( milk + cream ) milk + cream = total I will take a shortcut here . I specified almost as much strawberries as milk . They have no fat ( unlike milk ) , but a similar ( actually higher ) amount of dry mass . So let 's see what happens when we keep the 500g cream and turn the 50g difference between strawberries and milk into cream too ( because we suspect we want some more fat ) . Then we have 190 g fat , 290g dry matter and 980g ice cream base . At 19.38 % fat , we are above the ratio given in the article , but close to the original ratio ( and I suspect that the article might be about Philadelphia style ice cream , which has less fat ) . The 29.59 % dry matter are again outside of the article recommendation , but close to the original recipe . In fact , I assume that well emulsified fat can prevent ice crystal creation , so the higher liquid content does n't create problems here ( also note that McGee gives a 10-20 % range for fat in ice cream , not 7-12 % ) . Long story short : do n't add fruit puree , it is mostly water . Substitute puree for milk , calculate the new percentage of fat and dry matter ( use the 7-12 % fat and 37-42 % liquid for a recipe without emulsifiers , you can be freer if you have emulsifiers ; egg yolk counts as emulsifier ) . If you are still not there , try the calculation with less puree , or increase the fat and/or dry matter until you are in the recommended range . Or just start with the equations . NB # 1 I did n't check my calculations , could have a mistake there . But the principle should be correct . NB # 2 I calculated with cream density of 1 . This was somewhat surprising , but the nutrition data for cream I found insists that a cup of cream ( 240 ml ) weighs 238 g , so the difference is small enough to not go to the trouble to convert . A recipe given by volume probably ( hopefully ) has some leeway , so this should n't skew the results into a bad recipe .
I can not imagine that sanding and buffing a wooden spoon would have any useful culinary applications , although I suppose it might feel smoother to the touch . Generally when you season something wooden for food preparation , the purpose is to create a protective layer to avoid warping or impregnation . If I really wanted to season a spoon , I would season it the same way as a wooden cutting board : Use a food-grade mineral oil and rub it in thoroughly with a cloth or paper towel , then repeat as necessary after it is dry . Like hobodave , however , I have never done this nor heard of it being done . The cost of a wooden spoon is probably less than the cost of the mineral oil you 'd need to season one . If your spoon starts to warp or take on strange odours , just buy a new one . N.B. I can think of one exception , which is if the spoon takes on a fuzzy texture when you get it wet . In that case , sanding it would be done in the context of <URL> . But once again , it 's extremely rare that you 'd need to do this with a cooking utensil - this is a far more common requirement for homemade ( i.e. DIY ) wood products .
You need to make sure you use the right measurements when translating recipes from the US to the UK as the UK uses imperial measurements which are different from US measurements . There are also differences in cream fat content and egg sizes . Teaspoons and tablespoons are the same , so do n't worry about them . First , pint measurements , as the UK does n't use cup measurements . The UK pint is 20 % bigger than the US pint , so if you are using UK pints to measure you may be getting ratios wrong . Use Milliliters instead when translating . 1 US Cup is 237ml ( I round up to 240 ) . If you use UK pints as a measure instead of US you wo n't have enough baking powder in the ratio . In fact , I find UK baking powder and bicarb a bit weaker than US powders , so I increase those measurements a bit anyway . What works for me is the first time I make a US recipe in the UK I weigh the dry ingredients and use weights every time I make the recipe after that , I can fine-tune it that way . US light cream is between 10-30 % butter fat , and heavy cream is about 36-40 % . UK single cream is between 10-30 % fat , whipping cream is about 36 % , and double cream is 50 % fat . So if you are right that US heavy cream is UK whipping cream , but mixing 2 parts UK double and 1 part single works just as well as many places do n't stock whipping cream . I doubt that your results come from the cream you are using though , the fat contents are n't that different . One thing that could be different is the flour you use . US and UK flours are n't completely the same . For my biscuits in the UK I buy 00 or purpose milled pastry flour , which is finer and better for pastry than the bog standard stuff . If you ca n't find it pick the flour with the lowest protein content you can find . Hope this helps , let the forum know your results if you can .
Yes , actually , there are two magic ingredients : <URL> and <URL> . Guar gum is a thickener , but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles . Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air ( called overrun ) in the mixture . Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines , but it wo n't stay that way without the stabilizer .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
tl ; dr Either way is fine . When making ice cream - your quest is to bind up water . Water crystallizes and makes ice cream icy instead of creamy . There are a lot of ways to keep water from freezing in ice cream from reducing the volume of water in the mix , to using natural antifreezes , to binding the water up with gums or starches . Sugar loves water . The water will eagerly hook up with sugar and wo n't be able to freeze . If you macerate your cherries two things will happen - 1 - Water will be drawn out of the cherries and 2 - The water that is left in them will be saturated with sugar and slower to freeze . The result is that the cherries will be softer , sweeter ( of course ) , be slightly more concentrated , and not freeze solid . If you do n't macerate them then they will be little chunks for cherry ice . Both ways are perfectly tasty and I 've had ice creams that do it either way . It just depends what you want to make .
Properly wrapped , the extra insulation would not have been the cause of higher than normal ice formation ( freezer burn ) . What I suspect might have happened here is that putting it outside in the cold caused all of the steam to condense on the surface of your mac &amp; cheese , resulting in you bagging damper than usual mac &amp; cheese .
Since you say French-style ice cream works fine , but the gelato is freezing rock hard , I suspect the problem may simply be the serving temperature . Gelato needs to be served at a warmer temperature than ice cream . Unfortunately the temperatures I 've found are pretty variable ( some say 5F , some say 10-20F ) , but everyone consistently says gelato needs a higher temperature than ice cream . So just try taking it out of the freezer 15 minutes before you want to serve . If you do n't want to do that , then actual gelato recipes probably wo n't work well , and you 'll have to modify them . You can try some of the usual tricks for softening ice cream : <URL> . But keep in mind that they may cause you to stray a bit from the original gelato flavor or texture !
You could serve it with a lemon curd tart , making sure to keep down the amount of sugar in the curd . Or just some lemon sorbet , that would also go well I think .
It means the butter is made from cream that has n't been fermented . Butter made from fermented cream is known as " cultured cream butter " , and it has distinct sour , lactic acid notes . Sweet cream butter tastes , well , sweet , and if it is from really good fresh milk you may be able to taste grassy notes . Both are good in their own way .
I have made marshmallows using <URL> ; it works and is a lot of fun . If you do n't form the individual marshmallows , but just swirl it into the ice cream while it 's still a sticky mess , that should work for your swirl . There is even a video in that link . As ElendilTheTall mentioned in comments , you probably should reduce the amount of gelatin in Alton 's recipe , perhaps by a third , to get a good swirl .
In retail stores everything is " priced " to what the targeted consumer will pay . There is little relevance to production cost to final price The cost of most food goods is not for " growing " , but the energy for fertilisers , tractors , picking , processing , storage , shipping etc. . Your finally price is mostly the cost of energy used ( directly or indirectly ) For fruit juice you are paying mostly for picking ( fuel ) , processing ( electricity for water pumping and cleaning , electricity to running machines ) , storage ( electricity ) , and shipping ( fuel ) Cranberry juice is significantly more expensive to grow and pick , so this does show as a different price e.g. Apple Juice . Concentrate purchased at US$ 1,500 to US$ 2,000 per ton . Reconstituted 1:5 to 1:7 . So one litre of apple juice costs US$ 0.21 at best case . Yet you buy it for US$ 2 + per litre !
For a substance to burn , it must first reach its ignition point . For it to keep burning , it must reach its fire point . The ignition point of a 40 % ABV liquid such as brandy is 26ºC / 79ºF , and the fire point is approximately 10ºC higher than that . What this means in practical terms is that you need to heat the alcohol a little first before you add it to the ice cream . The simplest way to do this is to put the alcohol in a ladle and heat it over the hob - it wo n't need much as 36ºC is not a great deal over room temperature . Then light it carefully with a long match , and pour it around your ice cream - if you 've got it warm enough it should keep burning until the alcohol is consumed .
You can substitute one to one . Many brands of " light sour cream " ( Which is an oxymoron . Cream without the cream ? ) have a lot of gums and starches to stabilize the liquid as the fat would have done . Brands that do n't have gums dilute the fat with skim milk and are basically just yogurt anyway . Regular yogurt is fragile . It is a delicate mesh of proteins filled with water . When it is blended the water washes out . However , greek yogurt has already had this done ! So there is less water and it stays creamy and loses relatively little extra liquid even when blended .
I think the problem is that you do n't have chocolate bars , but chocolate mixed with butter , which has a lower melting point ( just like buttercream cake icing ) . If it 's your dentist who is advising you to go slow on chocolate , you might like to try switching away from high sugar ' candy bar ' chocolate and onto higher quality chocolate with a cocoa content of 70 % and over . The high-quality Swiss brand Lindt , for example , lists the sugar content of their milk chocolate as 23g per serving , but their 70 % dark chocolate as 12g per serving and in their 85 % super-dark as only 5g of sugar per serving .
Quite simply , it 's the fat content . Whole milk or " full-fat " milk is 3.25 % fat by weight . Heavy cream is 36-40 % fat by weight . These two products are at opposite ends of the fat spectrum , and there 's very little difference between 1 % and 3 % when it comes to an item such as caramel sauce , for which the optimal ratio is about 50 % fat . ( A little butter can boost the fat content from 40 % to 50 % ) . You might be able to substitute standard/single cream ( 18-20 % ) or maybe even coffee cream/half-and-half ( 10 % ) , but any lower than that and you 're just making sugary milk . Other alternatives to ( possibly ) get it thicker : Use ( much ) less milk ; I 'd advise not attempting a direct substitution , just find a recipe based on milk . Even the best milk-based caramel sauce will still be substantially runnier and/or grittier than a cream-based sauce . Considering that butter is 80 % fat and homo milk is 3.25 % , you could use a mixture of ( approximately ) half milk and half butter that would emulate the fat content of heavy cream . I 've never tried this personally , and I suspect that the flavour might be a little off , but at least it would be closer to the expected texture . Try a reduction ( simmer off the water in the milk ) . You 'll be simmering a long time , and you 'll have to watch it very carefully to make sure it does n't burn , and you 'll probably have a nasty stuck-on mess to clean up in the pan afterward , but it will thicken .
Corn starch only thickens when heated to 180 F , so it probably is not helping at all with your whipped cream . I live in the US , so I can not compare to whipped cream in the UK . Whipped cream for cake fillings is often beaten almost to the breaking point to make the foam as thick as possible . I assume you are whipping the cream sufficiently , and it still is n't getting as thick as you would like . If that is the case , you might try <URL> . The link is one of many I have found on a quick search , and it specifically calls for 35 % cream . This <URL> also has some interesting thoughts and advise . This <URL> also provides an interesting method of using creme fraiche .
<URL> As Alton describes . As you beat the cream bubbles of air get worked into the mixture . The beating makes the bubbles smaller and smaller until the fat globules touch and the mixture becomes stable . As you mentioned - if you whip it a little more then the fat will coalesce and squeeze out all the water and air and you have butter . Time is a factor in this process ( when done mechanically ) in that it is required for homogeneously sized and distributed bubbles . The fats have to stay plastic . The fact that it can be done very quickly is easily seen with whipped cream chargers . The gas is pressurized into the cream - upon release expands into the tiny bubbles we need . <URL>
end question
start question
What are the difference between outside and inside skirt steak ?
Per <URL> : [ T ] here are really two distinct cuts from the diaphragm of the steer . The outside skirt steak is from the plate section , below the rib and between the brisket and flank , and usually comes with the membrane still attached , which needs to be trimmed before cooking . Inside skirt comes from the flank -- it 's narrower and thinner than the outside skirt , and comes with the membrane removed . According to the <URL> , outside skirt stake is extremely rare in the US , as much of it gets exported to Japan due to a quick in the tariffs . The outside cut is tougher , but extremely flavorful . Both are used in similar applications , if you can get them . Given that any skirt you buy is probably inside skirt , the difference is likely to be moot . In making fajitas , Kenji Alt recommends grilling it over extremely high heat , to get browning flavors on the outside , and not overcook the center . He recommends not cooking it over medium rare . A couple of pictures :
I ran across a good resource while looking into duck eggs . I 'll let it speak for itself : The higher protein in Duck Eggs means they must n't be overcooked , or the whites will go tough and rubbery . Some people say they will be too tough if you completely fry them : they advise to rather partially fry them then add a few tablespoons of water to the pan , cover and let the steam moderate the heat and finish cooking them . Most people , though , seem to say they do n't notice a difference between fried chicken and Duck Eggs . Swapping Duck Eggs interchangeably in recipes for chicken eggs : some people say you ca n't ; others who substitute all the time say nonsense , it 's fine . When the Duck Egg whites are beaten they will come up a bit higher owing to the protein . They take a minute or so longer to start frothing up , but then make up for lost time . There 's a great deal more information on the page as well : <URL>
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
With flax seeds I like using 1T of seed ( ends up being 2.5 T of powder ) to 3T of water , and use it for thing that are suppose to be light like cake or something that needs a nutty flavor . But with chia seeds I use exactly 1T of powder to 3T of water ( ends up looking like egg whites ) and use it in brownies , cookies and so on . Also chia does n't add flavor like flax does . ** For me chia is definitely stronger . The first time I used a chia egg I thought it was like a flax ( 1T seed = 2.5 T powder ) but I was wrong , my baked good came out very dense in the middle and tasted raw . You can still use a chia but you have to be exact . Also a chia egg will become very thick and gloppy once it 's mixed with water whereas a flax just get gooey .
Butterscotch and caramel are very different things . The taste difference between the two is far from ' slight ' in my opinion . Caramel is typically made with granulated sugar , milk and/or cream , butter , and sometimes vanilla . The primary flavors of caramel are the sugar and milk/cream . Butterscotch on the other hand is made with brown sugar . It 's primary flavors are brown sugar and butter . It typically also contains milk/cream but they are not as prominent as caramel . Toffee is butterscotch that has been cooked to the <URL> stage . There is no liquor in butterscotch . There is a lot of leeway in what things get called caramel , butterscotch , and toffee . The important differences to keep in mind are that caramel is made with granulated sugar , whereas toffee and butterscotch are made with brown sugar and much more butter .
The <URL> page has an entry on this very topic . Basically , the color of the egg does not affect the egg 's flavor , nutritional value , etc. . It simply depends on the particular breed of chicken that lays the egg -- white eggs from white hens , brown eggs from brown hens . It 's also worth noting , as the ENC points out : Generally , brown hens are larger and require more feed and therefore their eggs may be slightly higher priced .
Yes , there is a difference in taste . I think it 's the chlorophyll , but I may be wrong . But the green asparagus has a " vegetable " or " grassy " taste which is n't present in the white asparagus . The white one has its own distinct aroma , which is less pronounced in the green one . As for texture , Caleb already said it . White asparagus is more tender , if you buy it fresh enough . On the other hand , non-tender green asparagus is snappy and somewhat brittle , like a normal stalk . Non-tender white asparagus is tough and stringy . When I cook white asparagus , I remove the lowest part ( the most stringy one ) and peel it ( the outer layer is especially string prone ) and sometimes , if it turns out to be low quality/old , it still has an unpleasant texture . The green one seldom requires removal of the lower part , and never peeling . Violet asparagus is like white one in both taste and texture , but not as common . Oh , and what Caleb says about both being the same plant is correct , but I have never heard of little shades . All farmers in Germany grow white asparagus underground . They make mounds of earth above the place where the asparagus is planted , and it has to grow a lot before it reaches the surface . They also cover the mounds with black foil to get the earth warm in spring . The harvest starts sometime in April and ends by tradition on June 24 . It is done by hand , because machines would break the rods . This makes it a quite costly vegetable . And it should be eaten fresh , because the longer it spends outside of the earth , the stringier it gets . I do n't share the common German enthusiasm for white asparagus ( " royal vegetable " etc. ) but think that it is a good vegetable in its own right . If you can get it fresh , it is worth eating now and then .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
<URL> has a nice description of Devil 's Food Cake . Originally , Devil 's Food Cake had a medium dense texture . The colour had a reddish tint that was probably caused by baking soda reacting with cocoa powder . In fact , I have an old cookbook ( The Day by Day Cook Book , 1939 ) that contains a recipe for Red Devil 's Food Cake . This recipe calls for 2 oz . unsweetened chocolate and 1 tsp . of baking soda .
<URL> is distilled from actual orange blossoms , and will have a subtle orange flavor , probably more delicate and complex than orange extract , at least on a per volume basis . Orange extract comes from the zest or colored part of the fruit , and is a very powerful flavoring with a strong orange presence , but no acidity . You will find that blossom water is more commonly used in recipes from the middle east and northern Africa , that have migrated up into Italy and France as well . Orange extract is used in more assertive , more typically western recipes . Given that fresh oranges are readily available , and the zest can be removed and use directly , using either of these is not as common as it otherwise might be .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
Shao hsing is just another romanization of mandarin Chinese ( Wade Giles ) for Shao xing : <URL>
Both crispy and caramelized onions are cooked for a long time , and will be very brown . However , they are cooked slightly differently . Caramelized onions are usually cross-cut on the onion to release its moisture , and then cooked over very low heat in a crowded pan , stirring infrequently , so that they gradually release their sugars and liquid and it turns to caramel . Depending on the onions and desired result , you may even cover them , an add a little liquid and/or sugar . The end result is very soft and very sweet . Arabic-style crispy onions are cut pole-to-pole in order to avoid rupturing cells in the onions . They are then fried over medium heat in an uncrowded pan , stirring regularly . This lets them dry out and become brown and crispy , even burning on thin ends . These onions should be a mix of crispy and chewy , and more savory than sweet .
I have a bottle of San-J Tamari ( black label ) in my fridge and the back reads : Tamari is a premium soy sauce made with more soybeans than ordinary soy sauce giving it a richer , smoother , more complex taste . Tamari has more flavor enhancing properties than salt . Add 1 tsp . ( 320 mg sodium ) instead of tsp . salt ( 590 mg sodium ) to reduce sodium intake . Stir-fry or marinate poultry , meat fish and vegetables . Add 1-2 tsp . to perk up sauces , soups , gravies and casseroles . In my experience , I use a little less tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . As Sean mentioned , it 's definitely a bit stronger than regular soy sauce . I eyeball most of the time , but I 'd say I use 1/2 to 3/4 portion of tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . I reach for the tamari when I want a bit more of a complex flavor on something plain like rice - when the soy sauce is to be the star of the dish , essentially . I tend to use regular soy sauce when mixing into a larger homemade sauce or where the soy sauce flavor will blend into the background because the recipe calls for so many other strong ingredients . Oh , and tamari seems to add a bit of an almost " smoky " flavor , it seems .
Leavening is rising by any means , so baking soda and baking powder ( chemical leaveners ) both apply here , as does yeast ( fermentation ) . Chemical leaveners like baking soda and powder work by mixing an acid ( varies , depending on the recipe ) and base ( usually baking soda in some form ) to produce carbon dioxide gas . Fermentation is the process of yeast converting sugars to carbon dioxide and alcohol . In bread making , the carbon dioxide is the desired product . In beer or wine making , the exact opposite . In both cases ( beer/wine and bread ) , other byproducts produced by the yeast add flavour and are highly desirable . There are other types of fermentation by bacteria ( such as those used in yogurt-making , pickles , or sauerkraut ) that produce lactic acid ; but those are somewhat outside of the scope of this answer ( although lactic acid fermentation by bacteria is responsible for the taste of sourdough breads ) . To specifically answer your question - yes , yeast breads undergo fermentation ( which is also leavening ) . Quick breads like banana bread use chemical leaveners , which are not fermentation .
Yes , you can detect the difference . How much of a difference will depend on the quality of both the imitation and of the real thing . That said , it 's difficult if not impossible for me to pick out the differences in baked goods . So I keep both around , and use the ( much cheaper ) imitation stuff for baking , and the real stuff for sauces , icing , custards , milkshakes , etc. . Incidentally ... In a pinch , bourbon makes a half-decent substitute for vanilla .
If the cocktail is from the 1800 's it 's just the place of origin . Nowadays the two are both fairly strong rums . They taste almost the same except the Jamaican Rum ( where I live ) is cheaper .
I found a link that will provide the explanation you are looking for : <URL> Here is a direct quote from the site : Masa is dried corn that has been cooked in limewater ( cal ) , soaked overnight , and then ground up while still wet . Sold in this form , it 's called fresh masa , and it makes the lightest , fluffiest tamales . In Mexico , it can be purchased at tortilla factories in two ways : with smooth consistency for making tortillas and , upon request ( if you are lucky ) , with a coarser consistency for making tamales . ( Be careful to differentiate between masa para tamales and masa preparada para tamales ; the latter , available at some tortilla factories and large Mexican groceries , is the coarse-textured masa mixed with lard and flavorings .
Pectin is a polysacharide found in the cell walls of plants . There are two main divisions of pectin used in cooking : high methoxyl ( HM ) and low methoxyl ( LM ) . The high methoxyl is used in most jam and jelly recipes . It requires sugar and acid to gel . When the pectin is dissolved out of the cell walls it is very dilute and picks up a negative charge that prevents the molecules from binding to each other and gelling . Adding sugar isolates the pectin molecules from some of the water while dding the acid removes their charge . Pectin HM is thermally reversible which means it can be set , melted , and set again . Instead of using sugar and acid to encourage gelling , low methoxyl pectin gels in the presence of calcium . It is used in glazes and reduced sugar jams . It is not thermally reversible . Pectin NH is a type of LM pectin that has been modified to be thermally reversible . The more calcium in a gel the less able that gel will be to melt . Pectin NH gels with calcium but unlike other LM pectins it requires less calcium . This would mean that it could still be melted and reshaped . The recipes that I have seen that use pectin NH both have less sugar and require remolding . From what I have seen pectin NH tends to be more expensive . It is typically used in low-sugar pastry fillings and glazes . <URL> <URL> <URL>
I asked my friend who 's written a cookbook adapting traditional ethiopian cuisine for vegetarians , here 's what he told me . Ethiopian and Eritrean food are basically identical . They were the same country until the early 90s , so that 's not too surprising , I guess . In both countries , <URL> are common and are eaten with teff-based injera . <URL> is a primary seasoning in both countries . He said the only differences are due to climate : Eritrea is at a lower elevation , so the food there uses more warm-weather vegetables like tomatoes , eggplants , etc. while Ethiopian cuisine might have more carrots , for example . However , he did point out that " Eritrean " restaurants he 'd been to in the US ( specifically , in the Bay Area ) were actually closer to what he would consider Ethiopian food anyway , which may explain your experience : you may be eating Ethiopian food at an Eritrean restaurant . Of course , since the cuisines are so similar , this is like going to a " Western New-Mexico " restaurant in China and being served ( gasp ) " Eastern New-Mexico " food -- not too surprising , in any case .
end question
start question
What difference would using Rock Sugar make in tea ?
It appears to be brown sugar instead of white sugar . So there will be some flavor difference from less refining ( e.g. , more molasses remaining ) You could pick up turbinado sugar at the grocery store , which will probably taste just about the same , for much less money . edit : I should also note that honey makes a good sweetener for tea as well , depending on the type of tea . You could use normal brown sugar as well . Maple sugar ( or syrup ) goes in some ... there are a lot of sweeteners you can use , and most of them you can get fairly cheaply at the grocery store so you can experiment . ( Except maple , I suppose , which is just expensive )
For steaks I really prefer cooking butter instead of oils , I find that the flavor fits the meat better .
Castor ( caster ) sugar is known as superfine , or bar sugar in the US . It 's not the same as powdered sugar which is even finer , has been mechanically pulverized , and is often mixed with starch to prevent clumping . According to <URL> you can make it with regular granulated sugar in your food processor for two minutes , but let the sugar dust settle before opening . See Also : <URL>
A rainbowy layer is almost certainly oil . ( This is called <URL> . ) Earl Grey uses oil of bergamot for flavoring , and likely cheap teas you 've used have oil-based flavorings as well . It 's not surprising that the oil eventually separates , and there 's not really any way to avoid that without significantly modifying the tea , or using tea that does n't have quite so much oil . I would definitely expect the flavor to be stale after it 's left for a while - aromatic compounds are by nature volatile , and they 'll slowly escape . You might be able to prevent some loss of flavor by putting the tea in something airtight ( preferably a completely full container , so there 's not even air on the surface ) and chilling it , but it 's going to be a losing battle . You said the color was stale as well ; I do n't know exactly what processes would cause that , but in general , the only way you 're going to be able to slow down any chemical processes is by chilling the tea . In the end , the real answer is simply that it 's best to drink fresh tea . Your time would probably be better spent getting to where you can make it quickly - for example , get an electric kettle that can rapidly boil a single cup worth of water .
One trend I 've seen recently is making tea broths/sauces for meats , fishes , etc. . . Besides being a good use for tea , this has the double effect of giving off the tea 's natural aroma when presented to the eater as opposed to simply using the tea to crust a meat - where you would n't really get any tea flavor until you actually bit in . I 've also seen people smoking meats with tea leaves and such . I have n't tried this myself to see if the results are worth the trouble ( aka - if you can actually taste the tea flavor ) . I would also try poaching various items in a matcha tea poaching liquid . For example : Water Sugar + salt Matcha tea powder Peppercorns Bay leaves Whatever else sounds good to you . You could use this to poach chicken and fish . Lastly , do n't be afraid to add it to soups ! Carrot-ginger soup would benefit from the addition of some matcha powder .
There is no difference in food taste when cooking using gas or electric . Gas burns pretty cleanly so is not going to leave a flavor residue you could detect . Cooking over flame as in a barbecue or a pot over a campfire does change the flavor because of the smoke , that 's the only case I can think of where the heat source can change the flavor of the food .
I 'll try to answer this . Concerning the first recipe you linked , it does n't matter at all whether you add it first or not , since there is no extraction going on . Theres no fresh coffee , no fresh vanilla . Just extract , which of course is already extracted , so no extended wait time is needed ! There might still be room for improvement , letting flavors ' marry ' and so , but I 'd say a day should be enough . The second recipe is different . It steeps fresh coffee in alcohol , and here it 's going to need time . One month is however an extreme amount of time . Usually , hot water and coffee is steeped for seconds , and cold water and coffee is often steeped for 12 hours . Consider that alcohol is a stronger solvent than water . But if going for a true alcoholic extraction , pure is better / faster , so you should steep before adding water , and the sugar probably does n't make much difference . This said , I 'm not sure you should actually let it steep in alcohol at all , and I 'm not sure you should dilute it either . If I was doing this , I would go for water cold extraction . I 'd be concerned that alcohol would extract too much , the same as too long hot water steeping leads to bitter , sour , pungent coffee . I 'm not sure why you would want to dilute it with alot of water either . Water adds nothing to the party . Dilute it when using it instead , this leaves you free to choose each time . Perhaps you 'd like to mix it with milk instead , sometime ? Do you have a french press ? Let 1 part coursely ground coffee steep in 3 parts cold water over night . Use the filter / top to filter it , and pour it into your vodka . I 'm not completely sure , but I think 1 part extract to 4 parts vodka would be fine . Use the same ratio of sugar as in the recipes you linked , or after taste . UPDATE : I did n't completely read the second recipe before I answered . It says to boil the vodka-mixture . Sure , the alcohol does n't vanish in an hour , but I 'd still say it 's an unacceptable waste ( spirits are expensive where I 'm from ! ) . Also , the effect is the inverse of destillation , so you are left with a weaker , but sweeter , drink . I 'm not sure why it says to boil it . It says that it 's to ' thicken the liqueur ' , but they could just use less water instead . Good luck !
Honey is your real binding agent here , not maple syrup . You can substitute the sugar-free syrup but be aware of what 's in it - according to the ingredients , it 's mostly <URL> , which is both a <URL> and a laxative . Now , ordinarily , I would n't tell people to worry about the digestive effects of sorbitol , but that 's a seriously large quantity you 'd be adding , so if any of you have sensitive stomachs , beware of eating too much of that trail mix at once . The other property - humectancy - means that what you end up with is going to be moister than what you 'd get with pure maple syrup . That may or may not be a good thing depending on your tastes . Since your issue seems to be a lack of availability rather than a problem with sugar itself , I 'd personally substitute generic pancake syrup , sugar syrup or even corn syrup instead . Or , if you 're really keen on the sugar-free stuff , you can use less of it and add more honey because the sorbitol will help keep the whole product moist . If you really want to cut down on the sugar , you can also use agave nectar , which is a fairly close substitute for honey ( a bit thinner ) , and could also stand in for maple syrup if used in combination with another syrup and perhaps some maple extract or maple flavouring . It wo n't be the same flavour , but , texture-wise , it should be a pretty close match .
Upon addition of sugar to the superheated coffee , the formation of bubbles ( phase transformation ) occurs because the fine particles of sugar provide sites for the <URL> of gas from the liquid . When the introduction of a fine inoculant ( such as sugar particles ) results in sudden fizzing of a liquid , it is an indication that there has been minor superheating of that substance . Superheating tends to occur more in microwaves than on stovetops because people use metal saucepans/kettles on the stove , while generally using glass or glazed ceramic containers when heating a volume of water in a microwave oven . When water is heated in a glass or glazed ceramic container rather than a metal one , the very hard surface of the container means that there are few scratches on it to act as sites for the heterogeneous nucleation of gas . Fewer heterogeneous nucleation sites means less heat loss through the transformation of liquid to gas . <URL> also makes a good point about the tendency for stovetop heating to cause localised superheating in the vicinity of the container walls ... However , I think that this would tend to cause more boiling due to localised heating to the point that homogenous nucleation can occur ( with the homogeneously nucleated bubbles then acting as further heterogenous nucleations sites ) -- not because of stirring of the water . With regard to why your bubbles remained present for the duration of drinking , I would hypothesise that this perhaps has something to do with the oils in the crema of the coffee , and/or reaction of the dissolved sugar to form something that increases the surface tension of the water . ( Not sure what you would call the opposite of a <URL> effect ) . A final thing I would like to mention is that ( as indicated on the <URL> page ) , microwaving liquids has the potential to result in violent reaction , or even explosion , of the liquid -- in other words , you are risking serious burn injuries by taking a shortcut to heat it up . Adding a powder ( like sugar or instant coffee ) to superheated water is particularly bad because in doing so , you are introducing millions of nucleation sites at once . That said , you should also be aware that since gas bubbles themselves promote heterogeneous nucleation , simply placing a spoon in the cup can be enough to cause an ' explosion ' . If you really need to microwave a liquid , ( e.g. , if you are cooking something ) , consider heating it in a microwave-safe plastic container that has been washed a few times ( and is therefore abraded on the inside ) . You should also stop the microwave to check the temperature of the liquid at regular intervals , rather than nuking the fluid for an excessively long time .
Technically , your idea seems sound . But I would n't do it . What you are proposing to do in your electric kettle is very close to the standards for flash pasteurization . According to wikipedia , the standard procedure for flash pasteurization is to heat and circulate the liquid at 71.5 ° C ( 160 ° F ) to 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) , for about 15 to 30 seconds , which results in a five log ( 99.999 % ) or greater reduction in bacteria . Other journal articles seem to indicate that some protozoa like cryptosporidium are killed by flash pasteurization , but others , like giardia , might survive in small numbers . I suspect the guideline for boiling water in issues of safety and in recipes is used because steam and bubbles are such convenient guarantors of temperature . Psychologically , though , this makes me a little nervous . Personally , I would boil the water - if you have time for tea , you have time to boil water . It is possible , though , that you are a more adventurous tea drinker than I am .
Soda-like drinks have traditionally been made in the same way as beer , but with less fermentation to keep the alcohol content low . Without alcohol , ( and with a bunch of protein and fat around from the yogurt ) you run the risk of growing some <URL> in your soda . Some traditional fermentation techniques carry risk of botulism , and any ' new ' technique should undertaken very carefully . That being said , your soda should be quite acidic and probably safe . Get some pH paper and use it ! There are a few things I would change in this plan : Yogurt is made at fairly high temperatures to encourage lactobacillus growth while inhibiting others . Find out the best temperature for your culture , and make sure you can maintain it during fermentation . Try get the culture growing independent of any yogurt : grow it in your sugar/lemon solution for a few generations without pressure and with a bit of oxygen . If it 's still alive and still tastes good , you 're probably OK . Otherwise , if the culture dies halfway through fermentation , something else is likely to grow in its place :-( Lemon juice is quite acidic , and will clean metals quite nicely . So do n't put your soda in any metal container unless your really like the taste of iron . ( Even beer is acidic enough to cause this problem , fermentation is always in glass , plastic or stainless steel ) . Used plastic soda bottles work well when clean . The other major problem with a pressure cooker is getting the soda out : if the cooker did hold pressure from a fermentation ( actually it will probably leak CO2 faster than it is made ) you should n't be able to open it until the pressure is removed . Again , soda bottles are a good choice here . Last - your water should not be chlorinated , the flavor of your soda could be ruined by chlorine .
I made a sauce using the ingredient ratios specified in the question . The sweet and sour in this sauce actually balanced each other and I thought this might invalidate any experiments until I considered that they also dominated the flavour of the sauce . In other words the sauce was a little too tangy ( or tart if you prefer ) . For the purposes of this answer , I 'll make the following distinctions : sour : A taste where there is not enough sweetness to balance the acidic notes ; tangy : A taste where sweet and acidic notes are balanced ; tart : A taste that is tangy , but the sweet and acidic notes together dominate flavour . Note that I do n't suggest that this is the accepted nomenclature . I think it is possible that the OP confounded sour with tart which may explain the specification of no additional sugar in the question . Colour as a sweetener As the <URL> says , The color of food can affect sweetness perception . Adding more red color to a drink increases its perceived sweetness with darker colored solutions being rated 2 -- 10 % higher than lighter ones even though it had 1 % less sucrose concentration . The colour of this sauce became much duller during cooking , so I tested the effect on taste of using a green food dye . I did n't notice any difference in a side-by-side taste-test , even though the sauce with food dye did look much nicer , I did one more test adding more dye and this time , to my surprise , the sauce with the more vibrant colour tasted very slightly , but nevertheless distinctly sweeter than the original . I did n't quite believe this , so I taste tested this several times with the same result . This led me to suspect the food dye itself and , sure enough , it tasted sweet due to an amount of glycerol in the ingredients . Despite invalidating my experiment , glycerol is neither sugar nor honey and as such answers the OP 's question directly ( if indeed the sauce was sour and needed sweetening ) . Adding to that the fact that the sauce now looks more appetising , I can recommend using green food dye whether or not colour has any effect on taste . Salt I also tested the suggestion of another poster , where salt is used to sweeten the sauce . I did n't hold out much hope for this technique , having experimented with salt on all manner of fruits a couple of days back . Once again , I was surprised . Salt made a positive difference , although this time the sauce was no sweeter than before . Quite the opposite ; sweetness was reduced ( which is consistent with my earlier experiments ) . The sour note was also reduced , so sweet and sour were still balanced leaving the sauce tangy but not tart . I adding a pinch more salt and now the salty taste came through and ruined the sauce . I recommend adding salt if the sauce is similar to mine and excessively tart rather than actually sour . It is easy to overstep the mark when adding salt . I suggest making a little more sauce than actually necessary and putting an amount aside before adding the salt so that you can re-introduce some if you do go overboard . Dilution Finally I tested the advice to thin-out the sauce with water . This was the least promising result and it seems to me that sweetness disappeared faster than the sour taste . I tried various dilutions , but nothing compared well to the original and flavour was lost . Possibly this could work if you dilute the sauce with something more flavourful than water , but I would recommend the other two methods over this if you want to stay true to the original recipe .
Personal experience : I have used pots and pans on this and similar grills with no problems . My guess would be , if it says not to use them , it 's probably as you said - for the non-stick coating . There is a <URL> you can buy for the larger models , and perhaps you 're not going to get the most efficient heat transfer by putting it directly on the attached - but that does n't mean it wo n't work at all . Personally , I 'd rather have something slightly less efficient than have to carry two grills . Not sure which model you have ( since you said the portable , I assume <URL> ) , but the LX can handle pots and pans according to <URL> : " Grill lid detaches to make room for large pots or pans . " As far as I can tell , they 're essentially the same grill as far as how they function , just different sizes and features . Just to be safe , I would probably fire it up in your yard before the trip and try cooking something that you would cook on the trip , like a pot of coffee or a can of beans . That way you wo n't have any surprises when you 're deep in the woods and do n't have a backup ! If you are n't comfortable using it after your test , or for any reason , there are other solutions available that are pretty easy to carry . You can get a <URL> , they 're very small and light and easy to pack . There are some that sit directly on top of the propane bottle , but I do n't recommend them - they are very easy to tip , especially if you have children at the campsite . Unrelated to your specific question , but related to camping , I always recommend taking a small cast iron pot or dutch oven of some kind on any camping trip . In a jam ( let 's say you run out of propane ) , you can use that on any fire that you build , even directly on the wood/coals/whatever , and a pot is more versatile than a pan because it can be used for things you said , such as boiling water and making coffee as well as your typical browning , etc. .
I think what you 've stumbled across here is an interesting implementation of a technique , and not really a specific dish . The technique ( simplified ) is poaching . It 's just a very unique way of doing it . I 've had eggs poached in black tea in Macau , and you 'll also find the technique used in English and French cooking . There 's an old recipe for scallops with demi-glace that calls for the scallop to be garnished with a quail egg poached in tea with bergamot ( Earl Grey , commonly ) . I wish I could remember the name of it and my French is n't nearly good enough to search effectively . My eggs were cooked until just runny , but it 's not uncommon to have them warmed just to hot and gooey with the white still translucent ( and delicious with noodles ) . There 's probably a colloquial name for what she described , but it 's essentially an adaptation of a technique that ( very likely ) originated in China .
Poaching is a gentle process - the milk is n't boiling so there is no risk of it burning or the like . It will of course not spoil in the sense of it going off , that 's a totally different process . Fresh milk is better because , well , it 's fresh . Powdered milk would probably work , but if you have fresh , use that .
Sugar is a natural preservative and provided you store it in a dark , dry , cool place it should keep for a long time . You should store it in a sterilised glass jar or bottle . To sterilise , place the empty , open jar in a pan of cold water and bring to the boil , boiling for ten minutes . Remove , pour in the syrup , then place the lid on and return to the boiling water for another ten minutes . Dry with a clean towel and store .
All moving water has dissolved oxygen in it . That is what fish breath Dissolved oxygen is reactive , and will most likely extract more substances from the tea leaf , than without it . If these are the good flavour parts of tea , I do not know ? When you heat water it starts to release the dissolved oxygen . The more you heat water the more oxygen escapes You can buy tea making kettles that bring water up to 95 ° C ( 203 ° F ) , but not boiling , so as to decrease the amount of dissolved oxygen lost , but still making the water hot enough to brew tea . They also save energy :-) I use one of these , and am happy with it <URL> Some people " watch " their kettle , and switch it off just before the water boils ! It is a personal taste preference if tea tastes better when brewed in water with more dissolved oxygen or not
I believe it depends on the source of the leaves . Kuding can be made from both a wax tree species and a holly species . I do not know about the wax tree , but teas made from holly do contain caffeine ( Yerba mate , for example ) .
<URL> variants may be boiled that long or more -- they do contain black tea , but also spices ( where the boiling is needed , to extract the flavor from whole spices ) . The tea decoction this produces does contain all of the bitter compounds , sure -- but it is mixed with spices , diluted generously with milk and sugar , and becomes a palatable drink that is nevertheless very different from the coolly and weakly brewed variety you seem to be familiar with . In fact , it is even possible that the tea was plain black tea , brewed very strongly . Served with plenty of milk and sugar to balance the bitterness , milk tea is a cultural variation . Think of it kinda like coffee , if you want -- it is bitter , but it is expected to be -- and the tea can be doctored to make it work for the drinker . Tea can be served in lots of different variations , and none are more correct than others -- just like some teas are brewed very light and almost flavorless ( japanese green , and 15 seconds per brew ) , and others are brewed to death and sweetened to balance ( southern style sweet tea ) , some are served with milk , sugar , or lemon , and still more are served with salt or butter ( tibetan ) . Boiled milk tea or chai are brewed to death , to extract all the flavor , and served sweet and milky to balance the strength and bitterness -- and a weakly brewed tea would be tasteless and vanish in the expected fixings .
As a metric , if you are concerned about cutting back on sugar you might consider fruits and sugars with a lower glycemic load index ( GI ; higher causes spikes in blood sugar ) as a metric for seeking more ingredients . Sugars with low glycemic load indices are agave nectar ( GI : 15 ) and brown rice syrup ( GI : 25 ) , relative to white sugar and honey . Fruits with low glycemic indices are <URL> Cherries 22 Grapefruit 25 Prunes 29 Apricots , dried 30 Apple 38 Peach , canned in juice 38 Pear , fresh 38 Plum 39 Strawberries 40 Orange , Navel 42 Peach , fresh 42 Pear , canned 43 Grapes 46 For more references and ingredients , <URL> <URL> .
end question
start question
How to cure beef jerky with a minimum of salt ?
The salt in the cure inhibits bacterial growth ( particularly if the salt is one made for curing , and contains nitrates ) . So you should be warned that you are trading a few blood pressure points for enhanced risk of foodborne illness . Unfortunately , I think your options are rather limited -- either to keep the salt as-is , or forgo jerky in your diet .
Well , picking the best wine to complement a given cheese -- or vice-versa -- is a bit complex to fix into a stackexchange answer . I recommend Janet Fletcher 's book <URL> if you 're really serious about this . However , picking a wine which goes OK with the cheese is a lot easier . Here 's a few tips based on my personal experience throwing wine &amp; cheese parties : Robust red wines ( Cabernet , Zinfandel , Syrah ) complement no cheeses I know of ; they swamp the taste of the cheese . Fresh , lower-fat cheeses ( chevre , ricotta , Nicasio 's Foggy Morning ) go well with light &amp; sweet white wines , like a riesling or gewurtztraminer . Brie goes well with fortified wines , like manzanilla or muscat . Most hard aged cheeses ( manchego , cheddar , asiago ) go well with light , acidic reds like a lighter grenache , pinot noir , or tempranillo . Blue cheese generally wants a very sweet fortified wine , like a ruby port or late harvest zinfandel . Swiss-type cheeses ( emmenthaler , jarlesberg , St. George , etc. ) work well with medium white wines , like sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay . Really , what you 're trying to do is to have some complementary and some contrasting flavors in the wine as in the cheese . And generally you want to err on the side of milder wines unless the flavor of the cheese is very strong , since it 's too easy for the wine to wash out most of the cheese flavor . The other fun thing to do is pair cheeses up with wines from the same culture . Manchego with sherry and almonds , Roquefort with sancerre and French bread , pecorino sardo with barbera , cheddar with brown ale . Hope that helps some .
Hello @Huangism and welcome to Seasoned Advice . You may consider domestic wagyu . To get the best , it will still be pricey , but not nearly as much as Kobe . Please see this excerpt from <URL> . You Get What You Pay For All Wagyu beef is not created equal . In Japan , Kobe beef sells at more than $ 300 per pound . But now Wagyu is starting to be seen in grocery stores and casual-dining restaurants for $ 30 per pound . This mass-marketed variety of Wagyu will have a marbling score at the low end of the 12-point scale . American Wagyu Beef from Lobel 's of New York will score 9 points or higher . More expensive than our USDA Prime , our American Wagyu costs a bit more than $ 100 per pound ( depending on the cut ) . In terms of quality , taste , and texture , Wagyu and Kobe beef are indistinguishable . If what you 're looking for is best quality Wagyu , you should expect to pay $ 100 or more per pound . The linked page has a lot more information and more links to additional info . Although this place is in the US , I linked it because of the information available . Performing anther search , I found that wagyu beef is now available in Canada at Loblaws in Toronto and also at Costco ( various provinces ) .
Great question . the salt is not there for the taste of salt . A pinch of salt helps with the ionization process so your taste buds can pick up the tsate of the chocolate , ice cream , etc , better . I think this was discussed in an episode of Alton Brown 's Good Eats as well .
The <URL> has several diagrams - a current one in the main section apparently originally derived from the German wikipedia , and two others from older Russian sources . I was also able to find <URL> with another diagram , and translations of some of the cuts into English , which is helpful because the names are difficult to translate to similar English cuts via Google Translate , which simply gives anatomical terms for many of them . <URL> discussing the subject , largely from the perspective of someone who only knows the American name for the cut they are looking for .
There are several options : wrap jerky in paper napkins/towels before putting in the baggie put jerky in a paper bag and then in a plastic one put some uncooked rice , as Optionparty has mentioned The method you choose also depends on how long it takes the mail to be delivered . Rice is the most long-lasting way , but it will also add the most weight to the package . Paper bags and towels are equally effective , but they wo n't do for longer than a few days . Whichever you do , make sure the baggie is well closed to prevent any moisture from outside getting in .
The technique that many restaurants will use is to prepare the pasta ahead of time and store it in or on ice water . The chilled pasta may be then submerged briefly in boiling water and served .
Salt itself does n't really have a perceptible odour . However , salt added to other ingredients will usually react with some of them , which will indeed cause a change in the dish 's overall smell . There are several different reactions involved : Salt will draw fluids from most fruit , vegetables and meats . The fluids have an odour that was previously trapped within the food 's structure and is now available to your nose . Salt makes a fluid more acidic , which causes all sorts of changes . For instance , the difference in smell ( and other properties ) between a fresh cucumber and a pickled cucumber is mostly due to the brine , which is water with a high salt content . Salt may facilitate other chemical reactions in the organic molecules of the dish . Obviously , different molecules have a different smell . Each of these reactions may occur separately or together , depending on the specific ingredients used and a host of other factors , of course , but salt can definitely cause a change in the smell of a dish .
I believe it 's another name for the tenderloin . <URL> Also , if you check out this other fillet of beef recipe from the same show : <URL> You can see a much better picture of the meat . That one is clearly a tenderloin . So The Fillet Mignon is part of that technically ...
I think the cost effective-ness and worth it portion of the question is quite subjective since there is n't a way to directly compare salt with cookware grade salt block . These salt blocks are considered unusable when it becomes cracked and fall apart , not when all the salt has been used up . Thus the price is for the novelty of using these blocks to cook food rather than the actual salt content . And whether the flavor is worth it is complete up to you to decide . Due the obscurity of Himalayan salt blocks , I will provide a little background information for those who are n't familiar . Due to the Himalayan salt blocks ' unique lattice formation , it has very low moisture and porosity . Due to this property it can be heated up to extremely high temperatures ( up to 900 degree Fahrenheit ) . Also because of the lack of porosity the saltiness that comes off of it when cooking on top of it is minimal and will impart only a moderate amount of sodium . On top of that , it has many trace amount of other minerals including but not limited to sulfur , calcium , potassium , and magnesium . These additional trace minerals are what given the Himalayan pink salt its unique flavor . Now if you want to cook using the block merely to try out its taste , i would recommend you use <URL> instead . It is a bag of Himalayan pink salt that is meant to go into your food as seasoning . How long a salt block last purely depends on how well you take care of it and luck . This <URL> explains proper heating and washing techniques . Because these blocks are naturally carved out of the earth , fault lines ( sometimes not visible from the outside or even with the human eyes ) can exist on it . These fault lines will naturally grow bigger as the block is continuously heated to high temperatures . Because of this unpredictability , there is n't a " real " answer . However some can crack after just several uses ( on one testimonial , one woman claimed it broke after two uses . But she was able to get it replaces for free ) while other can last much much longer ( others have report using it for over a year ) . Usually you can get a replacement if the block cracks in a short period of time . Find out about this warranty period from the supplier before buying .
I notice Flank steak already made the list , and once I would have agreed , but it 's gotten trendy , and with the trendiness , expensive . It 's still not fillet-price , but it tends to run in the 7-8 dollar a pound range where I live . The steak I like to grill that I find to be tasty , cheap , and available is <URL> . Do a light marinade , grill it as lightly as possible , cut across the grain of the meat , serve . Your mileage may vary , however . The cheapest cuts are almost always the ones that local cooks do n't know what to do with , and if the locals are hounds for the fajita , you 're not going to be able to find skirt steak at all . My advice is to go to the store with an open mind , and browse the meat counter looking for deals . I came home with 3 pounds of tenderloin tips for less than twenty bucks the other day : if I 'd gone out looking to buy such a thing , I 'd have been disappointed .
I think this depends on the type of Gorgonzola . A Gorgonzola Dolcé has a milder , sweeter , less-blue flavor , so it should probably be served with a milder steak , like a Filet Mignon . A stronger , more traditional Gorgonzola should probably be served with a stronger flavored steak like a Skirt Steak or a Ribeye . If you flip the combinations around , one of the flavors is going to be lost . I 'm not familiar enough with Venison or other game to comment on their compatibility with Gorgonzola .
Most bacon home curing methods you will read use a semi-dry cure where the bacon is covered in a cure mixture then allowed to sit in the resulting brine made of salts , sugars , and exuded liquid from the meat . This is probably due to the fact that most people are more comfortable using their fridge and are also only making a small amount of bacon . The key to what you are looking for is dry curing with drainage . By using a cure mixture which includes nitrates ( traditional ) or nitrites ( modern ) as well as a draining board or table you produce a quickly cured meat product that is stable and can be produced at higher than fridge temperatures . The drawbacks are that the final product will have a greater loss of meat weight due to the loss of water , the product will have more pronounced flavor , and will be saltier but it will also be better preserved . This method is best for meats that will not be cooked but smoked and air-dryed or just air-dryed . It is the best curing method for people living in hot climate or having no refrigeration . In the South , bacon and ham production is something that was traditionally done in the late Autumn to take advantage of the natural cooling to reduce spoilage during the air drying portion of the curing process . The second traditional foodway that allowed bacon to be a staple in the South was the use of <URL> . Method : To guarantee continuous supply of salt and uninterupted curing of the meat , the dry curing is performed in a few stages . The cure ingredients should be thoroughly mixed . The mix should be rubbed into the meat at a ratio of 1:100 , curing salt mixture to meat , by weight . During this initial salting of the meat , it is important to thoroughly cover all surface of the meat piece with the salt mixture , because the high salt level and the cooler temperatures are the only means of protection against the growth of spoilage bacteria . Then the meats would then be packed tightly in a container with larger pieces like hams on the bottom and smaller pieces on the top so that each piece will retain its shape . The meats are packed skin down . Liquid drawn from the meat will accumulate on the bottom of the container and if the holes were made it would drain off . ( If you want to experiment with smaller amounts of meat you can perform this part of the process on a flat tray set at an angle to allow juices to drain away or in a perforated pan . ) The rule of thumb is 2 days of curing for each pound of original meat weight . Flip the meat after 3 days , and then again every 7 days thereafter , making sure that there is salt covering the entire surface . ( For bacon that would be stored for a long time or subject to higher temperatures they would most likely overhaul the cure , replacing the salt mixture 1 or more times during the process . ) After curing is complete , the meat pieces must be rinsed in fresh water to remove any crystalized salt that accumulates on the surface that would prevent sucessful smoke penetration . Blot dry then hang the meats or place on wire mesh to dry overnight . Store meat in a refrigerator or cool root cellar overnight or for up to 2 days . Allowing the bacon to dry uncovered in a cool place the night before you plan to smoke it encourages smoke retention through <URL> formation . At this point you would smoke the bacon and then let it air dry in a cool barn ( during Autumn and Winter ) or a root cellar . Like country hams , the bacon would likely be stored by hanging it in the root cellar in a muslin sack . Bacon produced this way is saltier than modern bacon . If you find it too salty , you can blanch it in simmering water for 30-60 seconds immediately before frying to reduce the salt . <URL>
Moist salts are naturally harvested sea salts from which not all the water has been removed . They are noticeably wet , often caking up or forming more of a " slush " than a powder . Some aficionados only believe that sea salt is " real " and " natural " if it is moist . Me , I have enough humidity in the apartment .
I 've noticed that salty food has somewhat of an addictive quality ; people who eat a lot of it ( i.e. fast food or other processed food ) tend to bury their meals under a mountain of salt , whereas people such as myself who do a lot of home cooking hardly use ( or want ) any . " Season to taste " means pretty much what it sounds like ; add however much salt ( and other spices ) that you , personally , like the taste of . If you have a habit of eating a lot of salty foods , then you might want to add a little less than that , for the benefit of people like me who gag at heavily-salted foods . If you use a lot of other spices , you wo n't need much salt - a few shakes of the shaker is enough . If the food is basically bland aside from the salt ( and maybe pepper ) , then you 'll need to use more . The best thing to do is add a little , then taste , and repeat as many times as it takes to get the flavour you want . If the food you 're seasoning is still raw ( and ca n't be eaten raw ) , then just put in a small amount the first time you make it and keep track of how much table salt you needed to add . Just remember , you can always add salt later , but a dish that 's too salty is permanently ruined .
Sauté / stir fry : When you 're just below the smoke point of an oil , it 'll shimmer ... but that 's only useful for a precise temperature if you know what the smoke point for that oil is , and you actually want to use oil for cooking . Grilling : I ca n't remember if it was an episode of Good Eats or on Alton Brown 's first book that he recommended that if you had an automatic ice maker , so had consistent sized ice cubes , that you time how long it takes them to melt at different temperatures , so you could use that to judge how hot a grill is . Grilling / Pans in general : For grilling , and campfire cooking , I 've always gone with the hand near the cooking surface to gauge how hot it is , but I do n't know that it 's all that accurate ... and people have a different tolerance for pain , so you 'd have to do some tests to calibrate . It does n't work as well for cooking on a stove except for cast iron ; I suspect it requires a more radiant heat source . Deep / shallow frying : I like the wooden spoon test -- dip something wooden into the hot oil , and as there 's moisture in the wood , you should see small bubbles rapidly form if it 's hot enough . Searing : Listen as you add food ... After you 've added a bit of oil , touch the food to the pan , and ou should hear sizzling . If it does n't , pull it back and wait a few more minutes for it to heat . * Breadmaking ** : If I need warm water for making bread , I 'll run the hot tap against the inside of my wrist ... once it feels slightly warm , but not hot , it 's just above body temperature , so should be good ( around 38-40 ° C / 100-105 ° F ) None of these are going to be completely precise , but there 's lots of ways to gauge temperature other than a thermometer .
In <URL> , Lorenzo notes that steaks may end up raw in the center if you only leave 'em out for 10-15 minutes to come up to temperature . I recommend 30 mins , but it will probably vary on what room temperature actually is for you . From Weber 's Way To Grill , which recommends salting right when you take them out of the fridge , here 's Mr. Purviance 's take on why you should consider salting early : It 's true that salt draws moisture toward itself , but over the course of 20 to 30 minutes that 's a good thing , because the salt begins to dissolve into that little bit of moisture . When the steak hits the hot grate ... [ you ] create a delicious crust . Any moisture you might lose is well worth the flavor of that crust .
I 'd pick up a simple cone filter at the local coffee shop . Insert a paper filter , add grounds , pour hot water through .
Salting the water in which you cook starches ( pasta , rice , potato ) is an effective way of enhancing the flavour of the finished product - boiling starches absorb salt well ( which is why adding chunks of potato to an overall salty stew will lessen the apparent saltiness of the dish . But salt does other things . When I am making roasted potatoes , I parboil them for 5 minutes before drying and roasting them in oil . if you divide them into two batches and boil one half in unsalted water and the other half in well salted water ( 1tbsp/2 quarts water ) , the salted potatoes will brown and crisp much better than the unsalted ones . I 'm not sure why this is , but I would encourage you to try it because it 's amazing to see .
To toast walnuts , pecans , pistachios , macadamias , and other nuts , follow the same procedure as for toasting almonds : spread them in a single layer on a baking pan . Bake at 325F until they are light brown and fragrant , about 5-10 minutes depending on the amount of nuts . Check the nuts frequently and stir them to ensure even toasting . Always cool your nuts before chopping them . Nuts have a great deal of oil that has been brought to surface by the heat , and the oil must be allowed to be reabsorbed , or the nuts could turn greasy during chopping . ( information found at : <URL> )
end question
start question
How do you make the green beans served at Din Tai Fung ?
I think the problem lies in that the beans are not water blanched , but rather oil blanched . The technique is called " dry frying " , and is a traditional Sichuan cooking method . The oil temp is kept low to dry out the inside while cooking the outside of the food . After the dry frying you can then stir fry the food . This technique should give you the required look and texture to the food . Hope this helps .
There are two safe ways to defrost , one more rapid than the other . First method is to defrost in the refrigerator . This keeps temperature below 40 degrees F , in the safe zone . This will , also , take a while . Second method is to defrost in the sink under cold running water . The water does n't have to run rapidly , but it should change regularly . This will defrost the fish more rapidly than in the air ( water is a better conductor of heat than air ) and will keep the fish in the danger zone for the shortest period of time . If you are not going to cook it immediately , then return to the refrigerator . If you are deep frying , there are some techniques that will allow you to go direct from frozen to fried , but that is generally done in a professional kitchen where they have powerful fryers that can take the temperature hit and come back strong .
There are two basic kinds of potatoes : starchy and waxy . The difference is actually in the amount of starch in them . Starchy potatoes , such as Russet or Idaho potatoes are best for baking , since the starch will allow it to be nice and fluffy after it 's baked . They do n't hold their shape particularly well when cooked . If you cut into a baked potato , it should be crumbly and dry . Waxy potatoes include most fingerling potatoes , and most red potatoes . They hold their shape better when cooked , so they are good for soups and stews and potato salads . Yellow-fleshed potatoes such as Yukon Gold or Yellow Finn are in between , and so can be used for either purpose . Purple potatoes also seem to have medium starch , and so can be used for both . According to one cookbook I have ( Moosewood Restaurant New Classics ) , there are two ways to determine which is which . If you cut the potato in half , the blade will have a film or a foamy residue on the knife . These potatoes may also stick to the knife because of the starch . The rules for the brine is to make it of 11 parts water to 1 part salt . A high-starch potato will sink ( it 's denser ) and a low-starch one will float . Here 's a <URL> . Now as to choosing ones that will bake well , it really depends on size . You want potatoes that will bake evenly , so try to choose ones of similar size . I bake my potatoes directly on the oven rack so that the hot air can move freely around them . Try to give them lots of room for that . Also , if you wrap them in aluminum foil , they 'll steam and wo n't give you the nice crunchy skin . ( And I 'd avoid any potatoes with irregular shapes -- the smaller diameter ones may cook before the larger ones . ) Large potatoes take about an hour to bake at 350F . Lots of small ones may take a bit less time -- experiment with your oven and your potatoes . I 'd start squeezing slightly after about 40-45 minutes . If they yield when squeezed , they 're probably done .
In a roux , the starches are not normally gelatinized during the production of the roux -- in fact , if you make your roux with oil rather than butter , there is no water present ( other than latent moisture from the flour ) to do so . Roux thickened sauces must normally be brought to the boil ; this is when the actual gelatinization takes place . ... Roux is easy to prepare in larger batches , stove top . Simple use a larger pan , such as a six quart dutch oven . Melt your butter or add your oil , then whisk in the flour . Cook for a couple of minutes ( after the bubbling subsides if using butter ) , and you are good to go . Do n't be afraid to turn the heat up as long as you are standing by , watching and stirring to prevent burning from hot spots . Butter can foam up considerably , so use a large pot in comparison to the quantity of roux . For dark roux , I would start stove top , and finish in the oven to reduce the likelihood of taking the browning too far , and reduce the labor of stirring required . The roux can be refrigerated . You can scoop it with a spoon and add it to sauce at the simmer and whisk , and it will thicken almost instantly . See also : <URL>
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
They 're generally good for adding some crunch , too , not just the flavor . A few things that come to mind : on top of a salad - my family does a roasted corn and black bean salad ; also probably good instead of croutons in salads where they 're a better flavor/style fit garnish on a soup - tortilla soup , sopa de elote ... as part of a breading for fish or chicken ( or anything else to bake or fry ) In general , anywhere you would use breadcrumbs , tortilla chip crumbles might find a place . If you 're afraid they 're too salty , you could always put dump them in a sieve and shake some of the really small bits out , leaving the more sizable bits of chip .
If you can find <URL> ( some nail polish removers ) , you can probably do <URL> .
Take them to a professional . Nothing you can affordably buy in your home will work well . Personally , I do n't buy quality serrated knives . I buy cheap and replace when dull . Only my normal blades are quality , and these I have sharpened yearly .
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
Yes , it is to do with freshness - the fresher and younger the aubergine , the less bitter it will be . If you have an old aubergine , you could try peeling it , as the bitter compounds are concentrated just under the skin .
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
Tomato paste is just tomatoes with the water removed , essentially . I 'd slice the tomatoes in half and roast them ( cut side up ) at 350 degrees F for an hour ( this will concentrate the flavour nicely and you can add s &amp; p/olive oil/herbs/garlic if you want ) . Then mash them through a sieve or food mill to get a smooth consistency . Then put that tomato puree in a pot and just boil them down until it 's as thick as you want . As it gets thicker , you 'll need to stir it regularly to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pot and burning .
I like the method of wrapping it in a damp paper towel and zapping it in the microwave for 10-20 seconds . This should moisten it up just enough to allow you to split and scrape . This article mentions that method as well as soaking very briefly in hot water : <URL>
Perfect . Sounds like your pizza stone is nicely seasoned . Scrub it with your stiffest brush , rinse with water , no soap , done . If you 're paranoid about germs , cook it before cooking on it . Throw it in the oven at a few hundred degrees , for 15 minutes or so . Ideally , you 're supposed to heat the stone ( thus sterilizing it ) before slapping the pizza upon it anyway ( although that requires a <URL> ) .
Nuke or boil the spuds first to get them 75 % to 90 % done before they hit the grill I would n't use foil either , they grill much nicer bare skinned . Root vegetables suck up the smoke and get tasty dark patches from the grill , just keep and eye on them , and turn as needed
" Fibrous " and " dry " are good descriptions for bean which have n't been prepared properly . Mostly , they have either not been soaked long enough , or have n't been cooked for long enough . Normal times for beans are about 12 hours soaking in water and another 1-3 hours cooking , depending on the desired texture . Also , sometimes beans can be cooked with about quarter/half a teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda , which softens them nicely . That should be a start towards solving your problem . To answer your question , I think that white beans and pinto beans are a good start ( you can make a chili , for instance ) , and that chickpeas are also a very good starting point . Cooked chickpeas are great as-is , and can be seasoned with cumin , salt and lemon juice for a nice snack .
While using a hot oven and keeping the tin hot while filling are both critical elements , equal concern needs to be taken with making sure that your batter is at room temperature . If the eggs and milk are n't room temp to even slightly warm , then it will take a significant amount of heat to simply warm the batter in the pan before significant steam can build for their expansion . You can warm eggs quickly by placing the whole egg ( in shell ) in a bowl and covering with hot water from the tap . Let it sit for 5-10 minutes and you 'll have room temperature/warm egg . Milk can simply be microwaved to warm only slightly or you 'll cook the eggs . You might also try using bread flour . Here in the south all-purpose flour has a lower gluten content than most other all-purpose flour in the US and it 's also bleached to weaken the gluten content that 's there . I 've recommended to guests of mine that have had issues with popovers not rising that they try bread flour and I 've heard positive responses following the use of bread flour . Bread flour will also have a bit more flavor and produce more browning from the additional protein .
<URL> . For both Camembert and Brie . Next time do n't buy it ...
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
end question
start question
Is there a website on how to store specific foods ?
The resource we generally use here on Seasoned Advice is <URL> . Feel free to edit this answer to include other resources .
The smoky flavour of barbecued foods is best achieved through burning lump charcoal or hardwood . In the scenario you 're describing , yes , burning hardwood and then cooking over the coals would give you a smoky flavour Store bought briquettes actually probably give you less of a smoky flavour because instead of using wood , many briquettes use other materials/binders that do n't give you the smoky flavour you want .
Yes , you should store them in a air-tight jar , and the best is to store the jar in a cool place in the house . The fridge is to moist for storing cupcakes . You can store them in the jar for about 3-4 days , but they wo n't taste fresh any more . So I would suggest if you want to store them longer then 1 or maybe 2 days , freeze them right after they cooled down from baking . If you use a topping , you can top your cupcakes when they are thawed .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
Depends on what you 're doing with them . Shallots have very fine layers ( allowing them to blend into sauces and dressings ) , and have a flavor between garlic and onions . If you 're mincing them fine and sauteeing them or whisking them in as the foundation for a sauce , I 'd suggest substituting pearl ( boiling ) onions or the white parts of green onions and maybe half a clove of minced garlic . If you 're slicing and frying them , regular onions should do , although I 'd look for smaller ones and slice thin . Red onions have a flavor more like shallots than yellow or white ones , but may add an undesireable color to the dish . If you 're chopping them , or cooking them peeled and whole for Southeast Asian cuisine , again pearl onions are probably the way to go .
Yes , it 's safe . It 's not acidic , and thus wo n't corrode the foil or cause it to leach in . Personally , my favorite was to store celery is in the crisper , in a vented tupperware container , lightly moistened . This extends lifetime somewhat .
That 's a really good question . I imagine it was probably stabilized with something that stays solid at high heat , b/c hot cheesecake would be fairly soft . Was it warm all the way through ? My wild guess would be they rewarmed it in the oven , then ( if needed ) blasted with a blowtorch for crispiness .
This is called the " roe " . More on wikipedia : <URL> Red roe is that of a female , and white , that of a male . It 's optional if you want to eat it , personally it do n't like the taste . More on ( ahem ) <URL>
It becomes quite confusing when talking about the difference between chow mein and lo mein mainly due to the error in translation . In Chinese chow mein literally translate as " fried noodles . " However when buying chow mein at a chinese restaurant , you get vegetables with a side of deep fried noodles . Somehow the title of a dish is referring the to side rather than the main dish which leads to much confusion . When talking about chow mein at a grocery store , it also gets confusing because you can get two types of noodles . The first kind is a fried noodle that looks something like this : This is definitely not what your recipe is referring to . The second type of chow mein you will find is very much similar to lo mein . It should be a raw noodles that is still semi-soft . It should look like this : If the chow mein you have at your grocery store resembles the second type of noodle , then you may use that as a substitute . If it resembles the first type , do n't . The first type is used as a topping sort of like chinese croutons .
As long as the tonkatsu is cooked and then cooled appropriately ( ie relatively quickly ) , then stored at appropriate temperatures ( ie refrigerated ) until consumption , you should be fine . The length of your journey to work will be the main factor - you need to keep the food cool enough , so a cool bag with ice blocks may be in order . Then you need to make sure they remain cool until they are consumed . Whether or not they should be reheated is probably a matter of taste . Also , check your local regulations for selling food for public consumption . It will vary from country to country , but many places will require a kitchen inspection and permit before you can legally sell food .
I would keep the one that you are eating the next day out . I would then freeze the rest of them . If you like them warm , you could freeze them wrapped in foil . Before eating pop them in a toaster oven until gently warmed through . If not I 'd freeze individually until solid then put in a bag to prevent your frozen bagels from sticking together , then thaw overnight ( if eating in the morning ) or in the morning ( if eating for a mid-day meal ) to eat .
Pickled ginger is the proper palate cleanser to use with sushi , which helps keep flavors from mixing when you 're trying several different kinds of rolls . So at least with sushi there 's a specific palate cleanser , and I imagine there are others for other types of food .
The two main issues with ground coffee are : The coffee losing its aroma . The aroma/flavor of coffee is quite volatile , and will evaporate very easily . The solution to this is an airtight container , with as little head room in it as possible . The coffee soaking up moisture from the air . This makes the coffee ... unpleasant . The best solution I 've found ( in a hot humid climate ) is to put it in the freezer . It is the nature of refrigeration to leech all of the moisture from the freezer compartment . In summary , the best I 've found is a small airtight box in the freezer .
The method I used in the past ( which might not be the best way ) is to lightly fry the food initially , drain it of all oils , and put it in the refridgerator until it is almost time to serve the large amount of food . Then you can finish deep frying the batches . The initial frying will dramatically reduce the time it takes to refry each batch . I found this was the best solution for myself as I was able to serve hot and ( almost ) fresh out of the deep fryer food to a large group of people at lot faster . I think the result is way better than if you had to store the fully deep fried food for 2 hours and had to reheat it up somehow .
We store them at room temperature . If only for 3-4 few days : under plastic wrap or in the microwave . If about a week : in sealed Tupperware to keep the humidity from getting to them . I do n't know if the humidity is an issue for everyone or only for those of us in a very humid climate . The refrigerator will make them last even longer but they wo n't taste as fresh after refrigeration . Freezer : 4-6 months . The absolute best place I 've found to store brownies though is in my stomach .
There are cultured soy and coconut milk products ( generally sold with yogurt ) which can be used as a sour cream substitute ; it 's frequently advisable to add a little extra vinegar or lemon juice as these products do n't generally provide as much kick as real sour cream .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
The oil will always separate from the rest of the product . ( home made or natural/bio peanut butter will behave the same way ) When that happens , just spend some time and elbow grease to mix it back together again . if the tahini was stored in the fridge , it might take longer because everything will be harder . Just leave it on the counter for a while until it gets to room temperature before mixing it back together . ( after googling ) People suggest to keep the jar upside down and when you want to use it , just put it back straight and let it stand for a while , it will mix itself ( a little bit ) together again .
Let a hot pepper ( jalapeño or habañero , perhaps ) soak in your liquid for however long it takes to achieve the desired hotness .
I 'm not sure how possible it is to give good and definitive advice on how to store fruits and vegetables generally . The best ways to store food will often depend on the specific kind of food and the purpose you intend for it . So take the following advice as more of hint , as it may be very bad advice for a specific fruit or vegetable . Generally speaking most kinds of vegetable store well in the fridge or on the shelf for few days uncut . How well they keep on the fridge or shelf after you cut them it depends a lot on the actual vegetable . For example , bell peppers seem to do OK in a bag in the fridge when cut , an onion is fine if you cover the cut side in plastic wrap , while a cut potato will dry out . You can freeze pretty much any vegetable , just check the frozen goods section of your grocery store , and safely store them frozen for years . While you probably would n't want to use them as a substitute for uncooked fresh vegetables ( eg . in a leafy salad ) , they can usually be cooked just like you would as if they were fresh . You may not even need to defrost them first , often you can just substitute frozen vegetables directly . Fruits for the most part a different matter . How best to store them , especially when cut , depends a lot on the particular fruit . Generally speaking after being cut most fruit needs to be used soon after or becomes useless for most purposes . You can freeze fruit and this will keep them from spoiling , but most fruit does n't hold up well in the freezer . For a lot of purposes , what you get when you defrost fruit is n't a good a substitute for fresh fruit . While most vegetables will have something at least resembling their original shape and texture after being frozen , many fruits end up like mush . Frozen fruits are mainly only useful for things like filings and jam . When freezing things , fruit or vegetables , always use an air-tight container . In the freezer air flow is your enemy . Foods exposed to the air will soon become freezer burnt . You 'll want to prepare the fruits and vegetables , removing skins , seeds and other inedible or undesirable parts , as doing so after freezing will be harder . You 'll also want to label them with their name and when you froze them . Since you can keep them for years , you can end up with a collection of mystery foods in your freezer if they 're not labelled . Two other possible alternative for longer term storage of fruits and vegetables are dehydration and canning . What you can do with the food after preserving them these ways is generally more limited than freezing . Dehydration often lets you eat the dried food as-is , while canning lets you preserve food in a already cooked form . You can also pickle many vegetables ( and some fruits ) but this essentially turns them into a different kind of food .
end question
start question
Why did n't my brioche rise ?
First , try proofing your yeast ( mix 110 ° F water , a little sugar , and a little yeast in a small container ; confirm that it foams ) . It may be that your yeast is ( well ) past its prime . That 's the most likely reason I can think of that your dough did n't rise . Second reason could be that while mixing , the dough got too hot -- heat will kill yeast . Yeast dies somewhere around 130 ° F , but really you want to keep it much cooler than that . If its getting too hot , consider starting with colder ingredients ( e.g. , ignore the instruction to warm the milk ) . Finally , I 'd suggest using recipes that are by weight ; flour is much easier to measure by weight . You may be using a different scooping technique than the recipe author . Also -- there is something weird about that recipe . It lists 3 1/2 cups flour in the ingredients , but then only has you add 2 1/2 cups in the steps . I suspect that is a mistake , and explains the batter-like consistency you got .
Is this normal ? Yes , it is . Sinew and other connective tissues ( silverskin/fascia , ligaments ) are very tough stuff ; you need to remove as much as possible by hand before grinding . Sinew and ligaments are strong , whitish strands or " cables " connecting bones to muscles and to other bones , respectively . They 'll be in the same place on every piece of a particular cut of meat : a poultry drumstick has an easily-identifiable piece of sinew -- actually the " Achilles ' tendon " -- heading from the fleshy part to the exposed end of the bone . Silverskin is a connective boundary between muscles . It 's a thin , clingy , and annoying sheet , translucent silvery white , that you will find on the surface , and defining the divisions of , various cuts of meat . It might make it through the grinder if your blade is nice and sharp and the piece is n't too big , but it 's best to take it off ( your teeth ca n't deal with it much better than the grinder can ) . You 'll need a thin , sharp , narrow blade for this : a filet/boning knife , sometimes a good paring kife . Essentially , anything that 's not fat or muscle needs to be taken out before the meat goes into the grinder . Chicken thighs have a lot of connective tissue . Some of it is hidden inside the muscle segments on the underside of the thigh ; make sure you cut those open . Depending on the particular piece of meat you have , you may end up with what seem like extremely small bits after this process . Even a nice pork shoulder can result in 1/4 " or thinner pieces after the internal connective tissue is removed . This wo n't have any real effect on the grinding process ; the only thing to watch out for is thorough and even mixing if you end up with many different sizes and are marinating/curing the meat before grinding . You can grind without removing all the tissue ( it gets frustrating sometimes ) , but you 'll have to be prepared to stop the grinder and clean the blade and plate frequently -- the instant you notice that the meat is not coming out of the plate in clean , cohesive , and separate lines . If you see any signs of smearing or over-grinding ( the grind will start to be too fine and become pink as the fat and meat combine ) , stop and clear the blade . Otherwise , the mixture wo n't emulsify properly , the fat will melt out when you cook it , and the sausage will be dry . Does my blade need sharpening already ? It may very well , but this still wo n't help with sinew and ligaments . You should treat your grinder blade the same way you treat your kitchen knives -- maintain its edge , rather than waiting for it to become completely dull . I 'd say that I put my blade onto a sharpening stone every 50 lbs . or so . The nice thing is that it 's extremely easy -- you are grinding all the arms of the blade at the same angle : flat . The plate also needs to be maintained by grinding the surface where it meets the blade ( the edges of the holes should be sharp ) , but I 'd say that this can be done much less freqently . The blade and the plate can both be maintained quite successfully and easily with a piece of fine ( 800 grit ) wet-dry sandpaper slapped on a table .
Soaking beans will not soften them . If done for a very long time ( i.e. , days ) , some beans will eventually begin to sprout or ferment , at which point they will become softer . But that is generally not desirable for basic cooking . Instead , you 'll need to cook the beans to get them to soften . Bring to a slow boil and then simmer until the interior is the desired texture . ( A common test is to take a few beans out on a spoon and blow on them ; if the outside of the bean breaks open a bit when you blow , they are likely soft and cooked through . ) By the way , the main purpose of soaking is to hydrate the seed coat ( the outer covering of the beans ) . Once that happens , the moisture can more easily penetrate the interior when cooked , allowing the beans to soften . If you do n't soak , you 'll simply waste the first part of your cooking hydrating the seed coat . Depending on the type of beans , their age , and other factors , that could increase your cooking time by anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour or so . ( For more details , see my previous answer to another question <URL> . ) Also , do NOT try using an acid . Acids can actually toughen the seed coat , making the beans take longer to cook and soften . This is one of the reasons chili recipes ( for example ) often recommend cooking the beans first , before adding to acidic ingredients like tomatoes . ( Note that cooking times for beans and lentils can vary significantly , depending on type of bean and age . For a mixed bean soup , I 'd expect about 1-2 hours of simmering for pre-soaked beans , and perhaps as many as 3 hours . Older beans can take longer , and I 've occasionally had old batches of dried beans which never quite softened to a consistent texture . ) EDIT : Just to add onto Joe 's great advice from the Dry Bean Council , Harold McGee has this to say about beans which never soften ( from On Food and Cooking ) : " Hard-to-cook " beans ... are normal when harvested , but become resistant to softening when they 're stored for a long time -- months -- at warm temperatures and high humidities . This resistance results from a number of changes in bean cell walls and interiors , including the formation of woody lignin , the conversion of phenolic compounds into tannins that cross-link proteins to form a water-resistant coating around the starch granules . There 's no way to reverse these changes and make hard-to-cook beans as soft as regular beans . And there 's no way to spot them before cooking . Once cooked , they 're likely to be smaller than normal and so may be picked out before serving . McGee also mentions that occasionally you may encounter batches of " hard-seed " beans , which hardened during particularly hot and humid growing conditions . In such cases , the beans will be tough no matter how early they are used ; they may take much longer to cook than usual ( and sometimes may never soften ) .
Rubbery chicken is normally a sign that it is overcooked . Frying is a challenging method to cook chicken , because it is very rapid , and easy to overcook the chicken . Some of this , you will simply learn by experience , based on the typical size of the parts you are frying , and the type of breading you use . You will learn to recognize from the pattern of bubbles and how the breading looks when it is done . In the mean time , if you have a quality instant read thermometer , you can take a piece out and measure its temperature . White meat should be about 158 - 160 F , dark meat about 165 - 170 F ( depending on your preference ) .
The answer is simple : your test batches were less airy , and more dense . The heat from the oil was likely unable to penetrate the dough as effectively and cook the interior . If the recipe turned out properly the first time around , that 's probably not the issue . If your concern is with storing the doughnuts ( though how you would have any left is a mystery to me ! ) then you may want to check out more effective methods of storage . There may be some helpful guidelines in <URL> .
Okay , I did some more thorough searching and found <URL> . Apparently my mistake was that I was letting them ( the doughnuts ) cool off , and according to the article : Glaze is the easiest way to sugar-up a donut . But there are a few things you need to remember . First and foremost ... only glaze donuts when they 're warm . If you do it when they 've cooled the glaze just soaks in and get goopy .
The reason that your basting sauce flopped was the recipe was calling for an emulision ( basically , a vinegrette ) and by leaving out the vinegar you are changing the one of the basic building blocks of the dish . The sauce will require that you add the fats to the mustard as it will clump as experienced if you do n't . The mustard in the original recipe is used as an emuslifer and may need to be cut down without the addition of the vinegar . To build a sauce like this , you should start with the vinegar , add the seasonings and any emulisfers ( in this case , the mustard ) and slowly drizzle the fats into the resulting mixture until all has been incorperated . You will still get a smooth sauce as long as you keep the order even if you leave off an ingredient or two .
This is the nature of meringue : they will start to fall apart as soon as you stop whipping . There are a few tricks to help it hold longer , but in general you want to have EVERYTHING ready to go as soon as the meringue is whipped . To help stabilize the meringue you can : Use a copper or SILVER-plated bowl to whip , or add a tiny amount of powdered copper supplement from a health food store Acidify it slightly : add 1/8 tsp cream of tartar or 1/2 tsp lemon juice per white , before beating Let the bowl warm to room temperature , which increases the ability of the whites to take in air Ensure there is absolutely no yolk in with the whites . The fat greatly destabilizes the foam . Now for WHY these tricks work : I 'm going to quote heavily from Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " , as it does a wonderful job explaining meringues and other whipped egg whites : Like the head on a beer or a cappucino , an egg foam is a liquid -- the white -- filled with a gas -- air -- in such a way that the mixuture of liquid and gas keeps its shape , like a solid . It 's a mass of bubbles , with air inside each bubble , and the white spread out into a thin film to form the bubble walls . And the makeup of these liquid walls determines how long a foam can stand up . Pure water has such a strong surface tension -- such strong attractive forces among its molecules -- that it immediately starts to pull itself together into a compact puddle ; and it 's so runny that it puddles almost immediately . The many nonwater molecules in egg white both reduce the surface tension of the water they float in , and make it less runny , and thus allow the bubbles to survive long enough to accumulate in a sizeable mass . What gives the mass of foam a useful kitchen lifetime is the white 's team of proteins . Whisking unfolds these proteins , primarily globulins and ovotranferrin , which bond to each other and stabilize the bubble walls . Cooking will evaporate the water and unfold ovoalbumin , creating a rigid and permanent protein network . However , the same proteins can ALSO destabilize the foam if they bond too tightly . " The protein network begins to collapse when too many of these bonds accumulate and the proteins cluster together too tightly " ( page 102 ) . In the case of egg proteins , one of the strongest bonds is a disulfide bond between the sulfur-containing amino acids , cysteine and methionine . Eggs contain copious quantities of these amino acids , which are why they produce such a potent stench when they spoil ; the sulfur is converted to malodorous sulfur compounds , particularly hydrogen sulfide . Copper , silver , and acids stabilize the egg foam by preventing the formation of these disulfide bonds . To quote Harold McGee ( page 103 ) : It turns out that along with a few other metals , copper has the useful tendency to form extremely tight bonds with reactive sulfur groups : so tight that the sulfur is essentially preventing from reacting with anything else . So the presence of copper in foaming eggs whites essentially eliminates the strongest kind of protein bond that can form , and makes it harder for the proteins to embrace each other too tightly . McGee also notes that silver has the same property of inhibiting disulfide bonding . Acid achieves the same goal of reducing disulfide bonding , but works slightly differently : The sulfur bonds form when the sulfur-hydrogen ( S-H ) groups on two different protein molecules shed their hydrogens and form a sulfur-sulfur ( S-S ) connection with each other . The addition of an acid boosts the number of free-floating hydrogen ( H ) ions in the egg white , which makes it much harder for the S-H groups to shed their own H , and so slows the sulfur bonding down to a crawl .
You can season the exterior of the kettle to help prevent rust , if you like . The interior of a cast iron tea kettle is often rust-proofed through chemicals that accrue during normal use . One of these is lime scale . Repeatedly boiling water , especially hard water , will build a coating of lime scale that will keep rust at bay . Another set of chemicals that help reduce the occurrence of rust are tannins . The tannic acid in tea leaves will react with red iron rust on the kettle to produce a more stable , blue-black compound called ferric tannate . To " season " a brand new tea kettle you can save used tea leaves and bags then place several in the pot and adding boiling water . Allow the " tea " to sit for 20 minutes then discard and rinse . As other answers state , a traditional fat-polymer seasoning of the interior is unnecessary because you do not need to prevent food from sticking to the kettle .
As Michael mentioned , a shaken vinaigrette is only going to stay together primarily while you 're shaking it . If it 's been staying together long consider yourself lucky all the other times ... this time was what should be " normal " . The more particulate such as herbs , mustard , spices , etc. that you have in a vinaigrette the quicker it will emulsify and the longer it will stay emulsified . The particles of spice and herbs act as physical barriers that help to interrupt the droplets of oil so that they are n't able to coalesce and come together as they can when you have just oil and vinegar/acid . When doing vinaigrettes by hand using a whisk , start with your acid and add the salt along with anything else , leaving the oil last . Adding salt to the acid component will help it to better dissolve so you get a truer reading on the flavor . When it 's added last as it 's usually written in most recipes : " season to taste with salt and pepper " , the salt usually has n't dissolved by the time you taste it and you 're much more likely to add too much , resulting in a dressing that 's a bit saltier than you might like . The manner in which you drizzle the oil and manner in which you whisk it when doing by hand , are also important factors . When whisking vinagirettes by hand , drizzle the oil form a higher level so that as it hits the bowl you have a finer stream that 's easier to emulsify . Also , use a back and forth " zig-zag " motion rather than a circular whisking motion . The " zig-zag " motion will allow the wires of the whisk to better break up the oil into droplets and emulsify them with the acid . Using a circular motion creates a vortex in the center of the acid where the oil tends to pool , resulting in an oily vinaigrette . The great part of using an immersion blender ( aka stick or wand blender ) is that EVERYTHING can go in at once . Use a container that 's deeper than it is wide ( such as 2 cup liquid measure ) so that there 's plenty of depth for the liquid . Garlic , shallots and herbs can even go in whole . The immersion blender will blend up your garlic , etc. and emulsify the oil with the vinegar . An immersion blender or a standard blender provide you with a the most stable vinaigrette .
Expiration dates on milk are not intended for open containers . Any open milk is only good for 3-5 days . After that , it is not safe for drinking , and taste is not guaranteed either . Many people seem to not know that . Traditionally , you could only buy HTST pasteurized milk , which has 7-10 days of usable time altogether . It spent 2-3 days on its way to the customer , and if a milk opened on day 3 after production went off on day 8 , nobody wondered , because it was on or just before the expiration date . Today , you get also ESL milks and nut milks , which have a much longer life in the closed container . But once you open them , they start acting like any other food - they are only good for 3-5 days in the fridge , no longer . The expiration date does n't matter for open foods .
While using a hot oven and keeping the tin hot while filling are both critical elements , equal concern needs to be taken with making sure that your batter is at room temperature . If the eggs and milk are n't room temp to even slightly warm , then it will take a significant amount of heat to simply warm the batter in the pan before significant steam can build for their expansion . You can warm eggs quickly by placing the whole egg ( in shell ) in a bowl and covering with hot water from the tap . Let it sit for 5-10 minutes and you 'll have room temperature/warm egg . Milk can simply be microwaved to warm only slightly or you 'll cook the eggs . You might also try using bread flour . Here in the south all-purpose flour has a lower gluten content than most other all-purpose flour in the US and it 's also bleached to weaken the gluten content that 's there . I 've recommended to guests of mine that have had issues with popovers not rising that they try bread flour and I 've heard positive responses following the use of bread flour . Bread flour will also have a bit more flavor and produce more browning from the additional protein .
Hojicha is a green tea which is made from bancha , a low grade green tea , and cooked slightly ; this very inexpensive green tea often comes out brown because it is discolored by oxidation . Other than this variety , and some very stale bancha , I ca n't think of a Japanese green tea that comes out brown . Some stale kukicha might come out brown , and low quality genmaicha made with poor quality kukicha could be brownish from the combination of excess oxidation and the toasted rice . Most of the non-Japanese green teas I 've seen sold as " green tea " and some lower quality teabags marked as " sencha " are broken down tea leaves that can easily oxidize in the packaging to the point where they are , at best , yellowish . However , if you use even a moderate quality sencha , and it is n't stale , it should come out green . Most good quality kukicha and genmaicha will at least come out greenish-yellow . Since most Japanese restaurants use a fairly inexpensive second-harvest sencha , I imagine you 're either buying hojicha or simply using a very stale , low-quality sencha . Chinese green teas are sometimes slightly yellow , but if they 're actually yielding a brown brew , they , too are either stale or are simply mislabeled oolong . I used to sell a fair amount of green tea when I ran a small scale import business . I do recall even matcha products turning brown after being exposed to excessive sunlight ; one of the bakeries I know was constantly running into issues with their matcha pound cake slices on sunny days , especially those pieces in the front of their pastry case . So it 's reasonably possible you simply have tea which has been stored improperly ; you 're best off with a nitrogen flushed tea and it should be used within about 6 months of opening the sealed package . If your tea comes unsealed , it probably is n't in very good shape to begin with . In any event , my recommendation is to try a first-harvest high-mountain grown sencha that is sold in nitrogen-flushed aluminum packages . Depending on the style , the brewed color will be either very green or slightly yellowish if brewed in the typical way . You can either do a very brief , several second infusion at near-boiling , or a longer infusion at around 80 celsius . I like it both ways . Gyokuro , if you can afford it , is extraordinarily green , but is unlikely to be served at a restaurant without an additional charge ( it 's essentially the same leaves used to make matcha , except rolled instead of being milled ) .
Allowing dough to rise twice results in a finer gluten structure than allowing it to rise once . It results in a smaller crumb and prevents huge gaping airholes in your bread . The reason that you have to let it re-rise is that you just pushed all the air out with the kneading you did developing that gluten structure .
Almost all fermented dairy products curdle under heat . When this happens , the milk proteins bind to each other into a rubbery mesh , which ca n't contain all the moisture from the original product , and it is squeezed out . Creme fraîche tends to be an exception . It contains a high amount of fat . This fat lubricates the proteins and gets in the way , so they ca n't bind to each other and form the mesh . However , the fat content of creme fraîche is n't all that high ( just enough to allow for the effect I described ) , so it is finicky when heated . As you do n't seem to have acid in the recipe , the trouble probably comes from water . It dilutes the creme fraîche , making it more probable that proteins will meet and bind without a fat droplet coming in the way . So , if you want to keep the recipe as authentic as possible , try to reduce the amount of water exuded by the other ingredients . The first thing to check is whether you are actually using creme fraîche . Sometimes people make a substitution with a similar product , but continue calling it the name of the original product . Sour cream , smetana , creme legere , plant substitutes , etc. wo n't work in your case - 30 % fat is the minimum for baking , the higher the fat content , the better is it suited . For the rest of the answer , I am assuming that you are using the creme fraîche . My suggestion would be to drain the broccoly very well ( I assume you mean blanched or nuked broccoli , baking them in the oven would be strange ) , maybe even try to use a salad dryer . If the salmon comes from a vacuum package , drain it well too , and pat it dry with a paper towel . Take the potatoes out of the boiling pot and leave them alone for a while , the cooling startch will absorb some moisture . Also , use a mealy type of potatoes , the starch in these could absorb some liquid from the other ingredients . Another thing which should help in any case is to reduce the oven temperature , as the gentler heat will affect the creme fraîche less . If this fails , you should consider adding other ingredients to stabilize the creme fraîche . It will change the taste , but not necessarily for the worse . A stabilizer should help . For dairy , carrageenan is very effective and its taste is not noticeable , but most people do n't have it in the kitchen . Starch will also act as stabilizer , take just a small portion , maybe a teaspoonful per 200 g creme fraîche . Dissolve it in a teaspoonful of cold water before adding it . You could also use flour . Both will affect the taste somewhat , the flour will be more pronounced . The second solution would be to raise the fat content . Adding pure fat is counterproductive , as the fat droplets in dairy products are much smaller than what your blender would achieve . But you could mix or substitute the creme fraîche using a dairy product with a higher fat content . Mascarpone , kaymak , katuk , clotted cream , or creme double should work . Or maybe cream cheese , even if it does n't have a higher fat content , because it contains stabilizers . A full substitution will alter the taste substantially , but a partial one will probably be OK . If all else fails , you could try if you ca n't change the recipe to accommodate a more traditional gratin liquid ( how is the stuff called in English ? ) . While I agree that pure creme fraîche will work best with what you listed , a mixture of eggs ( or just yolks to keep it more liquid ) , milk , the creme fraîche , and a tiny bit of flour would also provide a moist binding . Use less eggs/yolks than in a normal gratin to keep it from setting too much . It will be a big change , but if nothing else works , it will still taste much better than curdled creme fraîche . Or if you are a risk-embracing nature , you can continue using pure creme fraîche , just with the moisture reducing techniques , hoping that this will be enough . Each time it separates , you should drain the whole dish , catching the liquid . Scum off the curds , or strain them . The whey will have a nice taste , similar to a stock . Take out some new creme fraîche ( not heated ) , and mix it with the liquid . ( Reduce it first to avoid making it too liquid ) . Add it back to the remaining ingredients . This will keep the taste even if the curdling occurs , but will require lots of work .
Hmm . I would say that pumpkins maybe have a slight bit of acidity , but I would never think of them as distinctly sour . I suppose it could be the variety you are using . Also , taste your stock by itself to make sure it is n't contributing an unwanted sour note . All of that said , it may just be one of those expectation things . We are used to pumpkin in a sweet context , and your brain wants that little bit of sugar there to match the template , so it seems sour without it . If you really want to test this out further , try making a small batch of the same recipe with no spices and plain water to see if it is truly the pumpkin that seems sour to you .
I have the same problem and went through 3 different brands of milk , thinking they were UHT . However , after some experimentation I determined what I was doing wrong . In my case , after cutting the curd , and while the water was heating back up to 105 , we were stirring too much . The key is very slow gentle movement . Just enough to slightly move the curds , and not disturb them . " Stirring " will cause you to end up with a nice tasting ricotta , but not mozzarella .
There are a couple of things that jump out at me : 170 F ( 77 C ) - This is overkill for ground beef . The USDA guidelines recommend 160 F ( 71 C ) . Venting holes - This is unnecessary . There is no need to " vent " a hamburger . What you 're doing is creating holes for the juices to flow out of and get vaporized on the pan . This is likely a significant source of the smoking you describe . Keep those juices in ! I 'm not familiar with electric stoves , so I 'm not sure if 6/8 is too hot or not , but it might be . I cook my burgers on a gas stove at medium-high flame and generally do 5 mins per side for a medium burger ( I grind my own beef ) . My burgers are about an 3/4 " - 1 " thick too . So you might have your stove too hot , try turning it down a smidge . Update I want to clarify regarding the " blood " you are worried about . It 's a common misconception that the red liquid packaged with beef is blood . It 's not . Beef is drained of virtually all blood when it is slaughtered . Beef is 75 % water , so the liquid you see is mostly water and the pink hue comes from the iron &amp; oxygen binding protein <URL> which exists in muscle tissue . When cooking , the juices you are releasing are taking a lot of the flavor with them . This liquid is a combination of liquified fat , water , and proteins . You can verify this at the <URL> site for beef . Another common misconception is that a completely grey-brown interior indicates well done . According to the USDA , 25 % of burgers turn brown before being fully cooked ; this can happen as low as 135 F ( 57 C ) . The inverse is true as well , some beef can be cooked to the USDA recommended safe temperature 160 F ( 71 C ) and still retain some light pinkness in the center . If your concern is merely safety , cooking the beef to an interior temperature of 160 F is sufficient , regardless of it 's hue . If you you 're cooking it beyond that just because you do n't like the sight of pink meat , well you 're overcooking your burgers and doing yourself a bit of injustice . :)
You need to make sure you use the right measurements when translating recipes from the US to the UK as the UK uses imperial measurements which are different from US measurements . There are also differences in cream fat content and egg sizes . Teaspoons and tablespoons are the same , so do n't worry about them . First , pint measurements , as the UK does n't use cup measurements . The UK pint is 20 % bigger than the US pint , so if you are using UK pints to measure you may be getting ratios wrong . Use Milliliters instead when translating . 1 US Cup is 237ml ( I round up to 240 ) . If you use UK pints as a measure instead of US you wo n't have enough baking powder in the ratio . In fact , I find UK baking powder and bicarb a bit weaker than US powders , so I increase those measurements a bit anyway . What works for me is the first time I make a US recipe in the UK I weigh the dry ingredients and use weights every time I make the recipe after that , I can fine-tune it that way . US light cream is between 10-30 % butter fat , and heavy cream is about 36-40 % . UK single cream is between 10-30 % fat , whipping cream is about 36 % , and double cream is 50 % fat . So if you are right that US heavy cream is UK whipping cream , but mixing 2 parts UK double and 1 part single works just as well as many places do n't stock whipping cream . I doubt that your results come from the cream you are using though , the fat contents are n't that different . One thing that could be different is the flour you use . US and UK flours are n't completely the same . For my biscuits in the UK I buy 00 or purpose milled pastry flour , which is finer and better for pastry than the bog standard stuff . If you ca n't find it pick the flour with the lowest protein content you can find . Hope this helps , let the forum know your results if you can .
The recipe 's goal is to use the natural bacteria in the beets and beet peels to cause the fermentation . The thing about using natural bacteria is that you never know what these are going to be , so it 's a crapshoot what flavors you are going to get . Beets produced in one farm may have radically different bacteria in them , different varieties grown in the same patch of land could also vary significantly . It 's the same process as making a sourdough bread starter using natural yeasts - you may get a nice smooth and delicate flavor , or you could get something that will take the paint off of a door . The point is that you may be doing everything right , it 's just that 's what you are going to get from the process . Looking at the science of the natural yeasts and assuming the recipe writer is not talking complete BS , it could be that the delicate bacteria spoken of in the recipe is being out-competed by the other natural bacteria in the water you use , and on the surface of the container , lid , and airlock . The thing to do in this case is to reduce or eliminate these other bacteria so that the beet bacteria will be the only game in town . To do this use sterilized water ( buy distilled or simply boil your water for a few minutes before letting it cool completely ) , or run your water through a filter which will remove or kill bacteria . Then use a chlorine solution to sterilize every single piece of equipment you will use . That means the container , lid , lock , spoons - anything that will come into contact must be very clean . Wash your beets in sterilized water as well . I 'd do that to the equipment even if I used a culture , it will increase my chances of a good result . If that does n't work you may have to accept that is the way natural kvass will taste . It could be that the writer of the article likes it that way , or simply does n't know what he/she is talking about . In that case consider using a culture - there 's no dishonor in it and you 'll get something drinkable .
end question
start question
Madhur Jaffrey recipes - Indian/traditional names ?
What do you mean by " traditional/proper " ? A lot of Indian food is named simply after the ingredients in it - cucumber salad would probably just be cucumber salad . Sometimes they are named after the type of cooking method or vessel they are made in . Your Karhai broccoli is an example of that ; the karhai ( or karahi ) is a <URL> . It 's similar to a wok and usually looks something like this : If you 're looking for the single definitive name that goes with each recipe in that book , you wo n't find one . The " traditional " name for each dish would just be the recipe title translated into whichever Indian language is most prominent in the region the dish came from . But the translation is n't going to be a " proper " name because it will still be generic ; there are so many regional variations on common dishes ( variation in ratio of vegetables or meat , or in types and amounts of spices , etc. ) and so many languages spoken in India that no dish has a single name or way of making it . Take any dish that is a staple of Indian food and search for that dish name + " recipe " . I guarantee you 'll come across nearly infinite variations . ( Try something like " aloo gobi " - the translation of these Hindi words is literally just " potato " ( " aloo " ) and " cauliflower " ( " gobi " ) . I 've seen hundreds of recipes for it , and no two are exactly the same , but they do contain common ingredients . ) Depending on where you are in India , they are sometimes called by English names , too ; you might go to a restaurant and see " cucumber salad " on the menu with no explanation of what type of cucumber salad it is . P.S. " Roasted Moong Dal with Mustard Greens " is a hybrid Hindi-English dish name already ( another common trend in urban India ) . " Dal " just refers to a dish made with pulses , which are usually cooked until soupy/mushy or occasionally pureed . " Moong " is the type of bean used ; you sometimes see it spelled " mung " or written " mungbean " ( one word ) - you can take a look at the <URL> of varieties on the nomenclature .
Convenience : It 's more convenient and easier to monitor the temperature inside the home . The oven has a thermostat , where the grill temperature needs to be monitored and adjusted manually . No smoke left : Is could be assumed that the smoke has been exhausted . Too much smoke : The smoke flavor could become too strong if finished on the grill .
Naan traditionally is plain flat bread made using <URL> , Yeast , salt and water . Its cooked in tandoor . Salt could be optional if you are having naan with a curry . ( Cause curry usually has salt and the bread might not need it ) . Variations like milk or yogurt is used instead of water to make dough soft and fluffy . This would change the texture and flavor of the bread . It is possible to use baking powder instead of yeast , because they both act as a leavening agent . Do n't use them together . IMHO eggs are not part of the traditional naan ingredients .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
Those are the flavorings . Just like dill pickles have dill in them , those are what give the flavor profile that people expect from bread &amp; butter pickles .
Long story short : It 's the acid , and any acid will do . Food colourings are a type of dye known as an <URL> . Their effectiveness relies on hydrogen bonding which only works in an acidic environment . It 's not that the vinegar does anything special - not exactly . Rather , adding a few drops of food colouring to a large amount of water would give you something that 's not acidic at all , which will diminish or totally eliminate its effectiveness as a dye . Including vinegar in the mix simply allows you to stretch your rations , so to speak - to dilute the colouring in a whole lot of liquid without making it useless as a dye in the process . Basically , you 're creating a <URL> , which is a well-known term in the textile world , as it 's used to dye wool and other fabrics . Warm temperatures ( 140-180 ° F ) also aid in dye absorption , and apparently - although I 'm no expert in textiles - a small amount of Urea also helps . You could definitely use cream of tartar , citric acid or any other acid , but the recipes using vinegar are generally aiming for a specific pH , so you 'll want to adjust quantities of any other acidifier to match . Presumably , vinegar is just the cheapest and most widely available acidifier .
Ovens are by their nature a high-heat cooking method , and thus create a temperature gradient in the food . The outside of the item is the hottest , because it is in contact with the hot air , and exposed to the radiant ( infrared ) heat coming from the oven walls , ceiling and floor . Heat from the outside then conducts into the inside overtime . The effect of this is that the surface of the food will be the hottest , and the center the coolest. , 180 C ( 350 F ) is a moderate oven . It balances : Cooking the food through Overcooking the outside It is suitable for a wide range of baked goods and other dishes , although often within limits ( especially for non-baked goods ) you can trade temperature and time off . Note that a single oven can only have one temperature , and a moderate oven is good for many cakes and cookies ; for baking and heating through casseroles ; for roasting root vegetables ; for maintaining a braise ; and for roasting many meats ; and many other tasks . If you want to have multiple items in the oven at the same time , it is a good temperature to choose that will give good results for a wide variety of items , even if it is not ideal for every item . Still , it is not ideal for every cooking technique and food item . Low and slow roasting ( for tremendously succulent pulled pork , brisket , and so on ) is done as low as 200 F ( 93 C ) ; some people favor high temperature roasting of certain meats to get a crispy exterior while maintaining a rare interior with temperatures of 450 F ( 232 C ) , or even higher . Many breads are baked at higher temperatures -- and of course , pizza infamously is ideally done at temperatures home ovens can not even achieve , so at home they are often baked at the maximum oven setting around 550 F ( 280 C ) . Deep frying is a separate matter , and it is a complete coincidence that the ideal temperature for deep frying matches that of roasting . The way deep frying works is that the heat of the oil heats the outside of the food , but it is hot enough to nearly instantly vaporize the water at the surface of the food . This water creates a small pocket of vapor around the food , preventing the oil from entering and making the item completely oily . In order for this effect to happen , the oil must be sufficiently hot which starts around 180 C / 350 F. On the other hand , again , you do n't want the food to burn on the outside before it cooks through , but more importantly , you do n't want the oil smoking , and developing off flavors ( many culinary fats have a smoke point starting not too far above these temperatures ) . For these reasons , frying much above this temperature is generally not a good idea . Most ideal frying temperatures are somewhere in the 350 F - 365 F ( 180 C 0 185 C ) range . I suspect many recipes indicate 350 F simply because it has become common and conventional .
If Belgian food is anything like the Dutch food my Oma made , your best bet is to limit it to the dessert course and strike out in a different direction . Even there , throwing in an extra pinch of salt and a little fresh ginger or cardamom powder may help liven it up for your friends . One area where you 'll both be happy : Mediterranean/Middle-Eastern fare . If you pick a recipe with plenty of aromatic herbs and spices , and maybe yogurt , it 'll have the rich flavors your friends are used to . However , they wo n't be the same dishes they have at home , so they ca n't compare unfavorably to their mom or auntie 's cooking . Flatbreads , kebabs , braised lamb , goat , yogurt sauces ... these will be familiar elements , but by using Mediterranean or Middle-Eastern versions , you 'll give them a taste of the exotic too . Using South or Central American cuisine will have similar results ; dishes rich in pungent chilis , cumin , and coriander will combine elements of comfort food with something new . Indian chapatis and naan ( flatbreads ) are very similar to homemade tortillas . It goes without saying that beef is to be avoided . Depending on what part of India your guests are from , coconut milk and tamarind paste may be other familiar elements to play with . Portugal also has a fine tradition of spicy foods , including the Vin d'alho which Indian adapted into the now-familiar vindaloo . If you do n't feel comfortable with these cuisines , you might do Indian , but with a fusion twist . I found that Saag Paneer with blocks of feta instead of paneer is absolutely divine . Halloumi cheese might work well too . In fact , I 'd say it 's better than the original dish . A word on dietary restrictions : Presumably you know your friends ' dietary needs , but if they 're bringing new acquaintances it is wise to give some thought to dietary restrictions . Many Indians are Hindus , who do not eat beef , and another major fraction are Muslim . Muslims follow a dietary law called halal , which is very similar to kosher law , and likewise excludes pork and animal blood . It also excludes alcohol ... which means a spicy tamarind-port pork marinade is n't viable . A sizable part of the Indian population is also vegetarian , so any meal should include a vegetarian entree .
The existing answer seemed confusing to me , so I thought I 'd do some research and post an answer . Distinguishing paragraphs of the article for me are : The cuisine we now call Tex-Mex is rooted in the state 's Tejano culture ( Texans of Spanish or Mexican heritage who lived in Texas before it became a republic ) and also Mexican immigrants who hailed largely from Northern Mexico . Until the 1970s , though , most people referred to it simply as Mexican food . and If you 're looking to identify the distinguishing characteristics of Tex-Mex , enchiladas are a good case study . In the classic Tex-Mex version of cheese enchiladas , grated yellow cheese is wrapped in tortillas , and then covered in a dark red chili sauce mixed with ground beef . You 'll also find other typical Tex-Mex ingredients like pinto beans and rice served on the side . and But Iliana de la Vega , the chef and owner of the Mexican restaurant El Naranjo in Austin , never ate cheese enchiladas while growing up in Mexico City . She recalls eating foods like chiles rellenos and salads composed of chayote or nopales . Beef was a bit of a rarity . " In traditional Mexican cooking , we eat a lot of chicken and a lot of pork , " she explained . If they had enchiladas , they were usually smothered in a green tomatillo sauce or mole , and sprinkled with a white cheese . " My mother was from Oaxaca , so we had mole maybe twice or three times a month , " she said . and Another difference is the abundant use of cumin in Tex-Mex cuisine . " We use it a lot in the north , but it 's not a spice we use much in the southern part of Mexico , " says de la Vega . Robb Walsh links the heavy use of cumin to the first wave of Canary Islanders who emigrated to San Antonio in the 1700s . Today it 's still a key ingredient in chili con carne , along with chili powder , which , according to Walsh , is a uniquely Texan invention developed by a German immigrant in New Braunfels in the late 1890s . In the late 1800 's , chili con carne was regularly ladled out at bargain prices in the streets of San Antonio at its famed chili stands . " Tex-Mex was never the cuisine of the upper echelon of society , " Bayless observes . " It 's a peasant , working class cuisine . " but Tex-Mex has been evolving too : The Tex-Mex that most of us think of , full of Velveeta cheese and pre-made taco shells , was shaped by the development of convenience foods in the 1950s . That time period left Tex-Mex , and even Mexican food in general , with a reputation as " just a cheap cuisine , full of sour cream and processed cheese , and that everything is greasy , " says de la Vega . [ Source : <URL> Summing up : Cheese enchiladas , chilli con carne , use of beef , and use of cumin , etc separate Tex-Mex from traditional Mexican .
It really depends on the length of time recommended . Due to the usual long length ( > 4 hours ) of slow-cooker recipe cook times most elevation differences would be negligible . However if a recipe calls for a cook time of less than 4 hours you may see some foods not cooking as usual . Legumes might especially be sensitive to this as they take a very long time to cook completely . Below is a table from <URL> on elevation vs water boiling temperatures . Altitude , m Boiling point of water , ° C ( 0ft ) 100 ( 212 ° F ) ( 984.25 ft ) 99.1 ( 210.3 ° F ) ( 1968.5 ft ) 98.1 ( 208.5 ° F ) ( 3280.8 ft ) 96.8 ( 206.2 ° F ) ( 6561.68 ft ) 93.3 ( 199.9 ° F ) ( 13123.36 ft ) 87.3 ( 189.1 ° F ) ( 19685.04 ft ) 81.3 ( 178.3 ° F ) ( 26246.72 ft ) 75.5 ( 167.9 ° F ) You may need to experiment with longer cook times for foods that you are having trouble with .
For big ( standard ) panettoni typical values are : Mould diameter of 17 cm ( 6.7 in ) . Mould height of 11 ~ 13 cm ( 4.3 ~ 5.1 in ) . Dough weight about 800 gr ( 1.7 lb ) . Albeit those values are not defined in <URL> , nor in <URL> . You can also find wider and lower moulds for the same dough sizes ( or upt to 1 kg / 2.2 lb ) . You can find those measures <URL> . Also , if you buy an already made panettone it will quite probably have those or very similar measures . In general , you can use the formula : Dough weight ( gr ) = 1,45 x Mould volume ( cm3 ) Formula calculated empirically . You can <URL> . When you pour the dough in the mould it will only be filled up to 1/4 or 1/3 . It needs to rise a lot : above the upper part of the mould . <URL> on making a homemade mould . And <URL> shows you how to do the mould yourself . It 's in Spanish , but <URL> . Sidenote : Orthodox stress they should be done with lievito naturale ( sourdough ) , not yeasts . Non orthodox italian standard accept only up to 0.01 % of yeast .
Recipe complexity is certainly a factor ( as the other answers mention ) , but there 's possibly a bigger reason : masalas often contain a very large number of spices that most western home cooks do n't frequently use . While some people ( generally more adventurous cooks ) are willing to purchase a dozen or two spices and make good use of them , that 's a bit much to expect of most home cooks . And if you do n't use the spices much , you 'd end up spending quite a bit on spices , and not even use them all before they go stale . A lot more people will be willing to make a recipe if they can just buy a jar of premade garam masala and be done with it .
For smoothies , the main body of the drink is fruit that has been blended with some limited quantity of liquid or ice . Typically , one of the fruits is banana , and other fruits ( berries , strawberries , kiwi , etc. ) are added for flavor . They often include a sweetener of some sort , such as honey or turbinado sugar . Milk Shakes are typically composed primarily of milk or ice cream , and may include limited amounts of fruit for flavor . They also usually include some sort of sweetener , such as sugar syrup or malt syrup , or a flavored syrup such as strawberry or chocolate . The general principle is that smoothies are mostly fruit , milk shakes are mostly milk . For your drink , I think it being a smoothie or a milk shake depends on the proportions of the ingredients added ( i.e. more banana means smoothie , more milk means milk shake ) . Based on the general principles from above , you could call your drink either a milk shake or a smoothie and be correct . That said , the original Banana Smoothie , as recorded from 1941 on <URL> , included two big ripe bananas and two and one-half cups of milk . Since that seems to be exactly what you 're making , I 'd say that your drink is a smoothie based on the original definition of the term .
With Olive oils , the more refined they are , the higher their burning point . So you are correct , an Organic Extra Virgin Olive Oil would be a terrible choice for Indian cooking ( would cause effect on taste , smell , and nutrition ) which has prolonged periods of sauteing on high heat . Lower quality olive oils , or a light olive oil , interestingly , would be a better choice . They are much more refined like vegetable oils , so have a higher burning point . But at that point , you 'd consider why are you using Olive oil ? Consider using refined butter ( ghee ) or coconut oil for Indian cooking . Ghee and Coconut oil will rarely smoke or burn and can stand high heat pretty well . I believe traditional Indian cooking uses ghee .
Since I 'm not an expert in Indian cuisine , I ca n't say this for certain , but I agree with the comments so far that this seems basically equivalent to the separation of the oil from the curry . To my mind , the wording makes perfect sense , because in some cases with a lot of oil/butter , you can get separation happening early on the pan 's edges . Oil tends to float on top , and usually the center of a pan is heated more strongly over a burner . Thus , you tend to get boiling/bubbling in the center , which tends to push any floating oil toward the edges . But these recipes are not looking for that small amount of oil along the edge ( which , depending on stirring and the thickness of the curry , can stay there through much of the cooking process ) . They are specifically waiting for the time when separation increases and fat appears floating on the surface even away from the edges of the pan .
There are three major properties of the liquids : Fat based ( oil , melted butter , bacon drippings , and on ) versus water based ( milk , juice , water , and so on ) . Flavor - some liquids , juices and to a lesser extent , milk have a distinct flavor that will effect the bread Acid - Some liquids , like orange juice , are more acid and affect the pH of the dough Not every liquid falls neatly into these exact categories . Milk , for example , is about 87 % water , 4 % fat , and the rest is sugars and proteins . These differences are often insignificant compared to the overall bread recipe . In general , you can substitute fat-based liquids for other fat based ingredients , and water based liquids for other water based liquids . Most breads also have the capacity to carry additional fats and sugars ( called enrichment ) , which at its extreme leads to breads like brioche which are very sweet and fatty . Eggs are a complex ingredient in that the whites are mostly water , with some protein ( albumin ) , and the yolks are about 50 % water and 50 % fat . See related : <URL> Note that in a bread recipe , with so few ingredients and a deceptively complex chemistry , all of the ingredients have a role to play in the chemistry , so the major factors you are looking at are the overall total ratios of fat , sugar , and water to the flour . Accent ingredients would be add ins like carway seeds in rye bread which do n't incorporate into the dough . In regards to your desire for more olive oil flavor , you almost certainly can substitute olive oil for any fats already in the recipe with comparable results . Most dought can even carry a little more fat , although this will inhibit yeast growth and gluten development , so that you will need more kneading and more proofing time . You can also brush the crust with olive oil before or after baking . The very best way to get olive oil flavor into your bread is to dip it in oil when you eat it . This also allows you to get the full flavor of a quality oil , as many nuances would be lost if it was baked into the bread .
Cast iron is ideal , but any pot that can take the heat and has a tight lid will work . Like @talon8 said in his comment , it does n't even have to be metal . This article from <URL> specifically uses terracotta for sourdough , not cast iron . Just as an FYI , this related question deals with preheating ( for no-knead bread , not sourdough ) , and the differing answers are interesting . To me it just goes to show that bread-making does n't always have to follow super-strict rules . <URL>
Any recipe where the water is part of a sauce or is expected to be absorbed ( including rice , couscous , and yes , pasta too ) , you can use stock instead to increase the deliciousness . If you have an opportunity to add flavour , why waste it ? Of course , there are some caveats to consider when making the substitution : Stock is going to contain a certain amount of gelatin ( how much depends on how the stock is made ) . This is often a good thing , leading to a richer mouth-feel , but if the thickening effect would be detrimental to your recipe , then do n't use stock . Stock can clash with other flavours , although less often than you 'd expect , since it 's effectively a mega-dose of umami . In particular I 'd probably avoid using it in recipes that are either very sour ( sour meat is the taste of rancidity and highly displeasing ) or very sweet ( since the sugar will overwhelm the flavour of the stock ) . So do n't use it in your candies or in your pickling solutions , but any dish based primarily on meats , vegetables , and grains , is definitely fair game . Because it 's a meat product , it has a limited life span . I would n't recommend substituting it for water in anything that 's going to sit in the fridge for several days and/or be re-frozen , due to food safety concerns . Oh , and I probably would n't use it in baking . The effects of using homemade stock when the primarily role of the liquid is to develop gluten would be unpredictable , to say the least . And somehow the thought of turkey-flavoured cake just does n't sound very appealing to me . As for the right ratio - that depends entirely on what went into the stock , how long it was simmered for and whether or not the stock itself was reduced prior to storing/freezing . You 're definitely going to want the same total amount of liquid , but if the stock is highly gelatinous then you might want to dilute it , and conversely , if the stock is very weak then you might want to reduce it . There really is no golden ratio , but I 'd probably stick with 1:1 for a " typical " stock .
There are three good reasons to oil your pan beforehand : Your pan needs to be ready as soon as your batter is . For cakes , the batter can fall apart while you are greasing the pan . This is especially true for cakes that have air whipped in , such as genoise , which can fall apart in a few minutes . Recipes containing baking soda can lose their fizz in this time too . You ca n't forget to oil up the pan . In the heat of the moment , it 's very easy to forget to apply lubrication before transferring the batter/dough ; inevitably this wrecks the recipe . Greasing the pan is part of baking mise en place and should be done before main cooking . Mise en place is a key principle of professional cooking , and means " everything in place . " The idea is that ingredients should be prepped and ovens preheated , so you can do the actual cooking efficiently .
The theory is that washing the chicken ( or any fowl ) removes all of the contaminates from the surface and cavity of the bird ( ie salmonella , etc. ) . People will be in one of two camps - 1 . those that have been told to do all of their lives , so they do it , and 2 . those who do n't because it is really not necessary . You cook your birds to a certain temperature internally for a reason , that is to kill all of that stuff . Really , the truth of the matter is that there are far higher risks in washing the bird and spreading all of those juices all over your sink ( thus contaminating the sink and possibly some work surfaces ) . There is no increase in flavour , there is no practical reason to bother . Professionally , it is not done . However , having said that , the one time I do rinse and pat dry is when I am applying a rub . It ensures that the chicken is dry and I can effectively rub , instead of the rub turning to a paste .
end question
start question
How to find a good sweet potato fry cutter ?
I have the <URL> and it works well for sweet potato fries . The product spec for them lists " Yams " which are sometimes what sweet potatoes are called in the U.S. ( technically , yes , yams are different but real yams are not often available in the U.S. ) . The <URL> specifically lists sweet potatoes : Makes French fries , sweet potato fries , zucchini sticks and other favorites
Unless there was sugar in your cream , there 's nothing particularly sweet about this combination . Did you salt the pasta water to roughly seawater saltiness ? If not , did you adjust salt before serving ? If your pasta water was under-salted , that would explain the sweetness , since the only significant source of salt otherwise was the parmesan . Heavy cream is equivalent to 36-40 % whipping cream . In the event that your cream was pre-sweetened , there 's not much you could do except add salt and hope the sugar does n't overwhelm . It 's a fairly common technique to add sugar to a salty dish to make it taste richer , or salt to a sweet dish for a similar purpose . But it would n't work very well if the cream was very sweet . Since I 've never seen sweetened whipped cream except in aerosol dispensers , I ca n't say for sure .
Bitterness can come from underripe fruit ( although a lot of times they 'll just be sour or less flavorful ) , lack of juice is usually something that has been stored too long and dried out . A ripe mandarin or clementine should be firm but not hard with a good , bright citrusy fragrance . Rubbing your finger on the skin should impart some citrus oil ( unless it 's waxed of coated ... ) I think usually the smell is the best guideline for flavor , although I have still sometimes had a fruit that smells great and tastes pretty bland . But I think usually if they are really fragrant that 's a good sign . The skin should be somewhat loose-feeling . If the skin is tight on the fruit , it is either not ripe or it is drying out ( or it 's not a mandarin or clementine ) . Do n't squeeze the fruit and bruise it , but when you pick it up , there should be a bit of give in the skin . Mandarins and clementines have very thin skins , but these still have the sort of spongy texture of other citrus . Because they are thin , they dry out quickly . It 's hard to describe what drying citrus skin feels like - progressively rougher and harder than fresh , eventually turning into a crisp and brittle almost stony layer . I 'm sure you would notice far before it gets to that stage , but it 's not going to happen overnight . ( But the fruit should n't be squishy or have soft spots , that is generally spoilage or damage . ) It should not feel dry and hard . A juicy citrus will feel heavy for its size , although for really small ones that 's kind of hard to judge . One more thing to note , though , is that most of the time , the whole batch of whatever type of fruit at the grocery store or at a particular market stall at any given time will very likely come from the same source . While there might be some better and some worse ones , overall they 'll probably be pretty similar , unless you can clearly see that some are older or from a different source . If you 're not sure about a batch , just buy a couple and then get more after you see that they 're good . ( And if you find some great ones , buy a lot and freeze some for juice for later . )
Grass-fed beef does certainly smell different from corn-fed beef . I have n't noticed it smelling " sweeter " , but it could smell gamey , earthy , or even sulfuric if the cow got in to some wild onions or garlic . And there 's plenty of variation between different types of grass and even the same grass variety from season to season . Corn-fed beef is not going to have that because , well , there is n't much variation in animal feed corn . Rotten meat has a distinctive smell and it 's going to be the same smell in grass-fed beef .
Any meat that is good for fast cooking ( BBQ , frying , grilling etc. ) will be suitable for this . Do not use meat that is normally casseroled or slow cooked . For beef this is the non-exercised top parts of the cow . Typical western cuts are called sirloin , rump , and fillet You need very thin slices of meat more than cubes if you want any level of browning and cooking to be achieved The easiest way to do this is to partially freeze you meat for one to two hours in a normal domestic freezer . A slab of meat with a profile of around 30 x 80 mm ( ± 50 % ) is the easiest to handle . Use a sharp chef 's knife or meat cleaver and slice it into 2 to 3 mm thin slices which will cook very nicely on a pizza A well marbled ( mixed fat content ) cut would work better , like in this picture
Use less heat . It 's not clear if you used any fat here . If you do , you have to be aware of the <URL> of whatever oil you 're using . By turning down the heat you 'll decrease the amount of fat you are burning , and turning into smoke . If you want to still get a nice crisp exterior you can briefly sear your sausages on high heat prior to fully cooking . Although , his might be irrelevant since you do n't really get good sears with a non-stick surface .
The theories that have come out in comments are most likely right on . Cast iron is special in how well it retains heat . Give cast iron ample preheating time , and you can drop in cold food without a significant drop in the temperature of the pan . That equals crispy . Even a pretty good and heavy non-stick pan is not going to give sweet potatoes the kind of crisp you can achieve with cast iron . You mention higher sides in the non-stick pan . That alone probably would n't make much of a difference , but considering that you 're already seeing a greater drop in temperature as you put in the potatoes , the higher sides would hold in more moisture in the cooler pan . That is not a friend of crispiness . You say that you preheated both pans to about the same temperature . I actually hope your memory is a little off on that :) One of the great joys of cooking with cast iron is that you can and usually should pre-heat it to a quite high temperature without damaging the pan . Teflon , on the other hand , should never be preheated beyond a very moderate temperature for a very short time . Some people go so far as to say that you should n't preheat it all . So if your beginning temperatures were about the same in the pans , they should n't have been . After you put in the potatoes , forget about it . You 'll never get the same kind of crispy sear with a teflon pan as you will with cast iron , even if you do n't know how to best exploit the advantages of cast iron .
Butter and milk will add fat and water which will definitely change the consistency of the dough . You will have to adjust the ratios if you add them ( surely more flour if you add milk ) . If you want sweet noodles my best bet would be to add sugar , although I would n't do sweet egg noodles ... maybe sweet rice noodles ? Why do n't you just do plain noodles and then make a sweet condiment instead ?
Rice wine vinegar and rice vinegar are the same thing , so that 's easy . For additional pantry-stocking : Seasoned rice vinegar is just rice vinegar with a little salt &amp; sugar added . It 's intended to be the right mixture for a number of recipes , not the least of which is sushi rice , although in my experience you 're better off seasoning plain rice vinegar to the correct balance . Rice wine is , of course , sake . Generally if you 're cooking with rice wine you want a moderately priced , clear filtered sake like Gekkeikan . The same advice about cooking with regular wine applies here ; do n't try to cook with anything undrinkable . Mirin is a specific kind of light , sweet rice wine used in braised dishes , dipping sauces , steamed fish , etc. . If you ca n't find it , buy a drinkable sake and add around two teaspoons of sugar per 1/4 cup of sake .
In the Caribbean and other Rum producing areas , you find Rum in all sorts of recipes It is sometimes an unusual flavour pairing , but not necessarily bad . In savoury cooking it adds a semi-burnt sweetness , more like toffee or butterscotch than straight Rum Caribbean and Mexican cooking is well blended and harmonious with many common ingredients ( chilli , coriander , avocado etc. ) Considering the popularity of spicy jerk meat and Rum , the Rum Fajitas would be an interesting experiment
My guesses : First , if you 're burning the outside before the middle cooks , you need to reduce your heat some . The outside will still brown over time at a lower heat , and the inside will cook better . If you start in and it looks like they 're browning real fast , just turn the heat down ( and maybe take the pan off the heat ) until things get back under control . Then resume cooking at the lower temp . Getting the middle more thoroughly cooked should really help with them staying together , as the egg needs to be cooked to be an effective binder . Second , make sure you drain the veg thoroughly before mashing . Any excess liquid may make them tend to fall apart . When they 're drier they 're going to be a little more stick-together-y in the first place , and then the cooking with the egg should bind it . If neither of these things helps , I 'd probably go for more egg rather than more flour . But I bet the other two options will sort you .
Good Eats ( Alton Brown ) has some good descriptions of the various difference 's between potatos . He has an <URL> Main thing is the starch content in them . He has an example of each of the three groups ( High , Medium , Low ) , includign a brief description and sample application . He mentions mentions frying in the High Starch content group , specifically Russets . He then has another <URL> , where he actually talks about French Fries and again mentions the Russet ( High Starch ) . While you can make fries out of different types of potatoes ( some of the more " all purpose " potatoes ) , if you want a really good classic french fry , you 're going to want to look for a Russet , with a similar starch content . Here 's a <URL> . Maybe you can look to see what you bought ? The age will probably affect it . A younger potato will in fact be sweeter So , to answer your specific questions . I 'm betting you did in fact buy a potato . It 's probably just a sweeter variety . If it does n't say at the market where you bought it what kind they are , I 'd ask the people who work there . Also , look at the third link I have above , it does have a few pictures as well as good descriptions on what they look like .
You 'll want to look for one of two products either <URL> or <URL> . Lait fermenté is a cultured buttermilk . This is homogenized and pasteurized milk which has been cultured with lactic acid bacteria . This is the de facto standard buttermilk in modern times . If you go to an American grocery store and buy buttermilk you are buying cultured buttermilk . Lait ribot is traditional buttermilk . It is the fermented liquid leftover from churning butter . This is not commonly found in the US and other western countries . See also : <URL>
If you are worried : a fast and cheap way to test the mixture is to to try it on a piece of chicken breast .
What about using mochi , an Asian pounded rice paste ? It 's a similar -- though not identical -- texture , it 's available in sweet and savory forms , and it 's held together by the starch in rice rather than anything gelatin , so it 's vegetarian . You can get plain unflavored mochi at many Asian food stores ; it may take some looking , as it 's more often sold sweet and filled with bean paste in the US . I 've had it in savory Korean dishes and I believe it 's used in savory Korean dishes as well .
In the normal cooking time of a quiche ( 20 to 30 minutes ) , the crust does n't really get soggy from the filling , even if it is quite liquid , as is expected for quiche Lorraine . So , you can without problem cook your quiche without first blind-baking the crust . The difference will be in the crispness of the crust : if you try to get it crispy , you should prebake , if you do n't mind it being rather , well , " plain " , you do n't . The only real reason for me to blind-bake a crust is when you put something on it that wo n't be cooked ( tartelettes ) , that will only get grilled or that will be baked less that it would require to bake the crust ( meringue tart ) . Most of these examples are fruit tarts , however .
Curing salts contain sodium nitrite or sodium nitrate . When these curative agents are combined with the amines in meat and exposed to high heat they form carcinogenic compounds called <URL> . As the linked article states , commercial producers often add Vit . C to counteract some of the nitrosamine formation , but the curing mix you have might not include it for economic reasons .
You should be able to cook on your grill using various types of wood such as hickory , mesquite , cherry , maple , apple , etc. . Per <URL> , birch can be used also . Birch - A softer wood , Birch is best used when grilling or smoking cuts of pork and poultry , providing a flavor similar to some varieties of maple . Birch is a softer wood and can also be syrupy . Also hard woods cook longer than soft woods . Be sure to use large chunks rather than chips or small pieces . Just keep these things in mind when cooking with birch .
It means the butter is made from cream that has n't been fermented . Butter made from fermented cream is known as " cultured cream butter " , and it has distinct sour , lactic acid notes . Sweet cream butter tastes , well , sweet , and if it is from really good fresh milk you may be able to taste grassy notes . Both are good in their own way .
Thierry , Stainless steel French presses work fine . In fact , you can construct a French press out of any chemically inert material : stainless steel , class , ceramic , high-temperature plastic , enameled copper , even marble , and it will make perfectly good coffee . I myself have a collection of porcelain and stoneware presses . What material you choose is really a matter of aesthetics and how you use the press . All of that being said , my experience is that high-quality glass carafes do not break regularly unless you drop them ( which is , admittedly , an issue ) . I 'm wondering if you bought a cheaper carafe with inferior glass , like one from Ikea . I have a Bodum which is at least 8 years old . Also , for brand name presses , you can usually buy replacement carafes , since breakage ( due to dropping ) is a frequent issue . Sometimes the replacements cost as much as a whole new press , but you should at least check it out .
end question
start question
Does the foam head affect the taste of cola ?
More head = less carbonation , which will change the mouth-feel of the drink , albeit largely imperceptibly for most people ( myself included ) . Less carbonation will also change the actual perception of flavour ; it will taste sweeter , mostly .
According to <URL> it appears that your notion about it being protein-based is correct . Most of the recipes I 've seen say to skim it ; the above-linked site says that adding a little oil will keep the foam down . I personally would n't do anything with it as an ingredient unless I had a truly massive amount of it to experiment with -- I do n't know enough about the properties to make anything other than wild guesses about how it would work . The only similar material I can think of would be beaten egg whites , but unless you were desperate for a vegan alternative and were already boiling up vats full of chickpeas I 'd just use the eggwhites .
Try heating the cream and milk to just below a simmer . Right before adding the milk mixture to the yolks whisk the sugar , vanilla , and eggs together . Pour the hot milk mixture into eggs very slowly . It 's best to strain it through a fine strainer . If you use vanilla bean make sure to add it after straining it . Let cool a little before putting it into the fridge . It should be cold before making the ice cream . It 's not necessary to fully temper ice cream base like crème anglaise .
If you use the same Dr. Oetker colouring that I have used in the past , which is advertised as a ' gel ' colouring , then you have to use a lot to get a good intense colour . You may have better results ( colour and taste-wise ) getting proper concentrated gel food colourings , like those made by <URL> . You need to use much less than cheaper brands so you do n't run the risk of flavouring the food , and you can even use them in meringues without ruining the structure .
I ca n't speak to specific chemicals/aromatics for mushrooms , but this kind of thing does happen with all kinds of food . The initial cooking is releasing aromatics that were previously bound up in the food somehow , so you quickly get some stronger flavors . But aromatic molecules are volatile ( that 's why you smell them ! ) and also generally more prone to breaking down , so as you cook longer , they escape , or are broken down into something else without so much flavor , leaving you with something milder . Think about onion , for example . When you first start sauteeing it , there 's a lot of really strong onion smell coming off , maybe even enough to make you cry if you 're prone to it . If you eat it then , it 'll still have plenty of sharp onion flavor . But as you cook longer , those flavors mellow out ; going to the extreme , slowly caramelized onions have no sharpness and very little onion flavor . I think the initial strengthening of flavor may be stronger with mushrooms because of their structure . They seem dry at first , with all the water bound up inside . But as you start to cook them , their structure breaks down and they quickly release a lot of water , and with it , those flavors .
It should n't have any effect , in the sense of any flavors leaching . If your container does change the taste , you should replace it . But it would be very unusual to chance upon a taste-changing container . Most cookware is non reactive , and containers meant for preparing and serving tea even less so . For example , untreated aluminium is reactive , but I 've never heard of it being used for tea pots or tea mugs . Steel is completely OK in that regard . Melamine also has no effect on taste , but see the footnote for safety considerations . The most likely condition under which you find a taste change would be if you are using ceramic teapots or mugs which were not mass produced for daily use , but made by a pottery hobbyist or by some exotic traditional technique which does not reach the convenience standards of modern mass production . In that case , you can simply switch the container to a neutral one , if the taste bothers you , or if you are worried about the safety of glaze leaching into your drink . Why porcelain or glazed earthenware No special reason . What you cite is an ISO standard . It was n't made for people making tea at home , they wanted to have perfect reproducibility , and the easiest way is to restrict as many variables as possible . So they took one of the traditional choices and prescribed it in their standard . There is no reason to follow that standard when you make tea for drinking . The material affects the taste of the tea in other ways : it has an influence on the speed of cooling down . But it is impossible to make a general recommendation here , as 1 ) there are many other factors influencing the cooling speed , and 2 ) people have different preferences for the taste of tea . The only relevance here is that , if you have found a process which produces tea you like with one set of utensils , it might produce a different taste if you use a different teapot , and you 'll have to experiment until you have calibrated the process to your preferences again . But the differences here are subtle , you have to be a pretty dedicated tea drinker to be bothered by them . Footnote on melamine safety : Melamine is a resin which contains traces of formaldehyde , a known carcinogen . The formaldehyde does not end up in the food at room temperature , but it starts leaching at higher temperatures , this is why it is not microwave safe . As the leaching process is gradual , and depends on pH besides temperature , there is no hard temperature prescription beyond which it is considered unsafe to use . But I could n't find any source rating melamine for over 100 Celsius , and some of them give a lower temperature such as 60 or 70 Celsius . If you are concerned about the formaldehyde , you are probably better off choosing another mug . Porcelain is the standard choice , but steel and some plastics are also frequently used . For a short consumer info on melamine , see <URL> .
<URL> tells us this is a myth : Many tea companies , and even some reputable entities such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture , have made misleading generalizations about the caffeine content of broad classes of tea . It is a widespread myth that black tea contains more caffeine than green tea , and another myth that white tea contains the least caffeine of all teas . They indicate that brewing method is the main determiner of caffeine levels in the brewed tea . The source article goes on to cite various credible scientific sources , which raise the credibility of this assertion . Unfortunately , most of their links have gone bad , which makes it harder to check the background science . This <URL> does indicate slightly different levels , but that is likely to be a result of different brewing details across tea types rather than fundamental to the tea plant itself .
I 'll try to break this down into components to make it simpler . If a <URL> starts by combining sugar and a solid fat ( creaming ) , this incorporates small air bubbles into the batter which will be seed bubbles for the carbon dioxide produced by chemical leavening . Occasionally , this creaming is used alone for leavening ( as in traditional poundcakes ) . If the flour is added straight to this , it can help prevent the batter from curdling later if a colder ingredient is added . This also coats the flour with fat , preventing gluten development and making a very fine , tender crumb since the flour is " waterproofed " before other liquids are added . If eggs are added to the fat and sugar , you can make an emulsified cake but the presence of water when the flour is added can make it slightly tougher . Some <URL> ( usually with oil ) require all the liquids to be mixed together , and then added to all the dry ingredients which have already been mixed . Again , this can sometimes lead to a tougher cake since the flour is exposed to water . <URL> is to mix all the dry ingredients , then incorporate the solid fat into that , then add liquids . This will usually lead to tender cakes as the flour has been coated with fat before liquids are added . If a <URL> is leavened with whipped egg whites ( or whole eggs ) , those will be added last to prevent the bubbles from being knocked out by excess stirring . You pretty much always want the fat to be present when the flour is added though . As you saw in your recipe , adding liquid to the flour without the fat will allow too much gluten development and make your cake tough and dense .
According to a quick search on Google , there are two other types of vinegar served in fish and chips shops along with malt vinegar . The first ( and my best guess ) is onion vinegar -- which is white vinegar that has been used to <URL> . This is clear , but at minimum contains onions and salt , and perhaps sugar and other pickling spices . ( I should note that the recipe I linked to uses malt vinegar to pickle the onions , but you could certainly achieve the same result with white vinegar . ) The second vinegar is actually called non brewed condiment , and is n't actually vinegar . It 's ascetic acid , water , and a bit of caramel coloring . The coloring would make it brown , but it would n't have the malt flavor .
There are two types of paprika extracts ; one , as you mention , is mainly a food colour . I understand this is made from raw , unsmoked paprika . It has no real flavour . The other is mostly a smoke flavour . I believe it 's taken from the smoked paprika leftovers , not from the raw paprika . Neither is any good for simulating the colour , texture , and taste of paprika . There are also many types of paprika , each having a different level of spice , colour , oil , and smoke . It is just a question of taste and culture to which one you like . So getting an extract to match what you think paprika is , is also difficult .
Here are a couple reasons why ( for which I know ) oil is used on salads : Oil caries in fat soluble aromas ( often we use aromatic oils like olive oil , pumpkin seed oil , walnut oil , and so on , that are all very aromatic ) and balances out other components ( like vinegar or lime juice or some strong tasting veggies ) . it adheres to the surface of many leaves/vegetables better than water/vinegar ( cause it breaks into the waxy leaf cuticle ) , so the dressing coating gets evenly distributed over the salad , you can use another thicker substance that clings to the leafs ( like yoghurt ) for this purpose instead . in thicker vinaigrettes/dressings it serves as a thickener , as by mixing with vinegar it builds an emulsion ( like in aioli the oil usually represents the continuous phase of the traditional vinaigrette - water-in-oil emulsion , where many modern vinaigrettes reverse the ratio - oil-in-water emulsion , or use some other fats rather than oil ) . And as already noted , it is not necessary for salads , you can use just lime juice ( like in some thai salads ) , boiled dressing ( that is thickened with starch ) , stock reduction , fruit/vegetable purees , yoghurt dressings or something else that does not require oil ( e.g. I have made slightly pickled japanese salads that only required some vinegar and brine and the main aromas came from the veggies ) . Also , I found this to answer " What 's its effect on vegetables ? " : McGee , on Food &amp; Cooking says : Oil seeps through the waxy leaf cuticle and spreads into the leaf interior , where it displaces air and causes the leaf to darken and its structure to collapse .
It 's been a while since I made sushi but 2 tablespoons does sound a little on the ridiculous side . Various other recipes use similar amounts ( to each other ) : <URL> : 1 tsp salt ( for 1/2 cup vinegar and 4 tbsp sugar ) <URL> : 1 tbsp kosher salt ( for 2 tbsp vinegar and 2 tbsp sugar ) <URL> : 1 tsp salt ( for 1/2 cup vinegar and 1/2 cup sugar ) <URL> : 1/2 tsp salt ( for 2 tbsp vinegar and 1 tbsp sugar ) In fact , although sushi rice recipes tend to vary significantly with respect to the proportions of rice , vinegar , and sugar , they are all remarkably consistent on the amount of salt . The Alton Brown recipe calls for a tablespoon , but 1 tbsp of kosher salt is in fact equivalent to 1-2 tsp of table or sea salt . Even on the Epicurious recipe , the 1/2 tsp is only for 1 cup of rice - you 'd double it to the same 1 tsp for the standard 2 cups . I assume that the recipe you 're looking at must have meant 2 tsp and not tbsp , but I think even that is too much ; I would stick to the 1 tsp used in almost every sushi rice recipe I 've ever seen .
Assuming you are n't very unlucky and happen to download a series of bad recipes I think it 's one of a few things . It 's possible you could be undercooking your goods . Fully cooked baked goods should not taste like flour . It 's also possible that you could be mixing insufficiently . If this were the case though you 'd likely have some cookies that were n't floury . The most likely culprit though is packed flour . If you are using volume measurements ( most likely given the source ) for flour , it 's quite possible to use nearly twice as much flour as the recipe intends simply because your flour is packed down more than the author 's was . I recommend using either a food processor or a sifter to sift your flour adequately before measuring . Do n't undo your sifting by rapping your measuring cup on the counter either ! Simply scoop , scrape to level and dump it in the mixing bowl . See Also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The fleshy party of the fruit of <URL> is is supposed to be sweet and pleasant . However , it does not taste like chocolate . Chocolate is made from the nibs or seeds within the fruit of theobroma cacao , after it is fermented ground , and processed , and is in no way sweet . The nibs themselves are very low in sugar , and contain alkaloids ( such as caffeine or theobromine ) which are bitter . This probably evolved to discourage predation or disease to the seeds themselves . This is very similar to the way peach kernels ( the seed within the pits ) are not terribly sweet , although they certainly grow within a fruit that is . So no -- there is no such thing as naturally sweet chocolate . A related tree , Cupuaçu ( <URL> ) is cultivated more specifically for its fruits , which are sweet and said to taste something like pineapple . Again , the fleshy fruit is not analogous to the seed which eventually becomes chocolate .
You can indeed do what you ask - baking on the pizza stone with a steam pan . It works better to pour hot water directly in the pan when you put the bread in though , rather than just leaving water in the pan . You get a burst of steam and then a consistent small amount . It 's a method that Peter Reinhart advocates . The other common option - especially with high hydration doughs - is to bake it in a covered dutch oven for the first half . This approximates some of the effect of the earthen/stoneware . The steam from the bread itself keeps the environment moist . You certainly do n't need those pots for fantastic bread . Tonights loaf - no earthenware ;) ( I rushed it for dinner , so the crumb is n't what it could be . )
It 's an issue of thermodynamics . When you 're cooking food , the food cools itself off through evaporative cooling and the energy being used to cause chemical changes in the food ( eg , caramelizing sugars ) . If you have too much food in the pan , the balance is overwhelmed by evaporative cooling , and thus you can only get to the boiling point of water . To change the equation , you need to do one of the following : Use a more powerful heat source . Cook less food at a time Reduce the amount of moisture in the food before cooking it . You 'll often see advice for # 3 -- such as patting dry steak or chicken before grilling it , as without it , you wo n't get good browning . You ca n't do that when you 're dealing with sauces . You can try cooking less , but with sauces you cause more problems -- if the pan size is the same , the area for evaporation is the same , so you do n't really improve the balance . With a sufficiently sized burner , you can actually heat sauces above the boiling point , as you 're putting in energy faster than evaporation can cool it . This which will change the chemical reactions that occur , thus the resulting chemical compounds and the resulting flavor of the food .
I do n't think the water change will be very significant . If you were to lay them out flat so the surfaces dried a bit , they might sear and brown more easily ( because that effect depends on moisture reduction in the first millimeter or so of the vegetable so that it can go above 212 F ) . The other thing that can be a factor is that once a vegetable is cut , some enzymes are released from the cells that can cause changes . Whether that effect will make any substantial difference depends a lot on which vegetables you are talking about .
Caffeine is bitter , tea is n't too bitter because as you mentioned it 's only got 40mg of caffeine . If you then triple the amount in there it 's going to taste that way . Try adding 3 tea bags to your cup and I 'm certain it 'll taste just as bitter . Energy drinks have copious amounts of sweeteners added hence why they do n't taste like caffeine . If you are hell bent on more caffeine without the associated bitterness but not adding sugar maybe a sweetener like stevia would be the way forward ...
@Adam A is close -- it 's not an issue of surface area on potency , it 's an issue of damage to the garlic . The ' strong ' taste of garlic comes from a reaction as chemicals are released so they can mix ( alliin and alliinase ) When you cook the garlic whole ( as you would for roasted garlic ) , you will never get this reaction , as you 'll break down the chemicals . Also , the chemicals break down over long cooking , so even if you add a head of crushed garlic at the beginning of a batch of slow-cooked tomato sauce ( 4 + hrs ) , it 's not going to have as strong a garlic flavor as adding a clove or two at the end . One other way that the garlic prep can affect the taste is when you 're sauteing , stir frying or other cooking over high heat -- larger bits can be cooked longer before they burn ... and burned garlic is bitter , acrid and will ruin any dish . ( if you burn garlic , stop immediately , trash everything , clean the pan , and start again -- there is no way to save it that I know )
Ah , so the question is " Why does boiling the tofu change its texture ? " . Answer : it does n't . Try doing this recipe without boiling the tofu , I think you will find it is pretty much the same . I think if the boiling serves any purpose at all it is to remove any last remnant of taste from the tofu . I do n't mash tofu often , but when I do , I never boil it and I 've never had a problem .
end question
start question
What do you get when you reheat and cool clotted cream ?
From your description and re-reading the instructions for your version : yes , what you had on top was still clotted cream . They liquid on the bottom should be whey , which gets separated from the rest during the clotting-process . Re-heating did start the same process you used originally , and left-over whey separated again .
Chicken fat is what you want , and -- this is important -- no cream or milk . Use chicken fat to make a roux , and then chicken stock . This will get you a yellowish colour . For extra bonus points , make your pastry with schmaltz as well . They do this at the gourmet supermarket down the road , and their chicken pot pies fly off the shelves .
I recommend ( and use ) a <URL> . Not only are they fairly tough and sharp , you can adjust the blade to the depth you need ( you do n't want to cut too deep ) . And the blades are cheap to replace ... As others have noted in the comments , be careful with this as you would with any knife : the blades may be small , but they 're quite sharp .
Whole wheat flour goes rancid . There is a lot of fat in wheat germ and when it oxidizes the flour becomes very bitter and has a very noticeable , unpleasant scent . First of all - if you use bleached white flour there is little to worry about . Bleached flour has had much of the wheat removed to give it a longer shelf life . At the expense of flavor and nutrition of course . Keeping whole wheat flour out of light , sealed from oxygen , and cold will keep it from going rancid . Any one of those will extend the life of the flour - putting it in the freezer sealed from air will keep it good indefinitely . In the cupboard I will start noticing off flavors in my fresh ground flour in a couple weeks . In the freezer I have gone as much as a year with no discernible degradation . You will notice if it has gone bad because it will smell and taste bad . This rancidity is n't dangerous so if the flour smells and tastes fine then it is .
Quinoa naturally contains a bitter compound on the outside of the seed . Usually you have to rinse the quinoa to remove the bitterness but most commercial quinoa seems to have already been rinsed . So , I no longer rinse my quinoa . If you have time , it 's nice to heat a pan and add the quinoa and toast it a little ( for a nutty flavor and fluffier texture ) , then add water and salt . I typically bring the water to a boil ( 2 cups water to 1 cup quinoa plus 1/4 tsp salt ) , cover and reduce the heat to a simmer for 10-20 minutes ( or until the little tails release ) . Lately I 've found that using a rice cooker is a no-fuss way to prepare quinoa . I usually just do quinoa , water and sea salt but you can add spices while cooking it if you want to enhance the flavor . I would add vegetables afterwards . Quinoa is so quick-cooking I would n't see the need for a pressure cooker .
Sometimes the outer leaves are a bit leathery ( especially if the quality is n't too god ) . When that 's the case I remove them first . Next , I remove the green stalks -- but Jefromi is right , the tiny leaves are delicious . The kernel in the middle near the base of the fennel bulb is very hard . I usually cut it out by halving the bulb along its length and making two incisions with a sharp knife on either side of the kernel . I chop the rest of the bulb so that it yields thin concentric slices .
As they cool , many proteins go from long , flexible and un-entangled to short , rigid , and entangled . For all of those , the basic thickening is due to protein structure . The proteins in question are puddings - albumin ( egg ) ( Note : egg is complicated , and can be made to entangle at many temperatures , e.g. souffles , meringues ) white sauces , gravy - gluten ( flour ) jello - gelatin ( from a variety of sources , could be either animal or vegetable ) Similar protein processes also explain the various cooking levels of meat ( rare , medium rare , medium , etc. ) , and the various ways of cooking eggs .
This is absolutely fine , especially if the eggs are pasteurised . I 've seen plenty of recipes that have raw egg in them that say it ; s fine to freeze them . You can even freeze eggs ( that have been mixed up a little ) for up to three months . So yes , I 'd say freeze it as soon as possible . Also , if you were concerned about freezing the quinoa that will fine as well ( a lot of people do n't know you can store grains in the freezer ) . Enjoy !
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
There are two main base recipes for ice cream . French style ice cream contains egg yolks , which help make it soft , rich , smooth , creamy , custardy . Philadelphia style ice cream ( sometimes called American style ) has no eggs , and relies on the fat in the cream to keep it soft , but will still never be as rich and smooth as French style , and will still tend to freeze harder . You can make pretty much any ice cream in either style , including the pistachio-almond you want to make . You can look around for recipes without eggs ; I would n't be surprised if you manage to find one one . Or you can simply use a Philadelphia style base , and look at one of the recipes you found to see how to add the pistachio and almond . Depending on how rich you want it , you 'll want 2-3 cups of heavy cream for each 1 cup of milk ; about 3/4 cup of sugar should work , depending on how sweet you want it . If that 's not rich enough for you , you can even replace the milk with cream . ( You could also just go find a recipe for Philadelphia style vanilla ice cream and use that as a base - it does n't get much simpler than that . ) ( P.S. . You could also try gelato , something like <URL> - it uses corn starch as a stabilizer instead . )
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
Torani Peach Syrup ! It 's readily available online or at coffee shop supply outlets . <URL>
I went to the farmers ' market last week and bought a variety of apples . After cooking , here 's the order from softest to firmest : McIntosh , Cortland , Winesap , Yellow Delicious . The McIntosh of course practically dissolve . If you want to make quick apple sauce , or if you like really squishy pie , they 're the best . I typically prefer Cortlands for pie , b/c they do n't totally dissolve but neither do they keep their shape . I think I 'm going to try Winesap , though ; I think they 'd work great for pie . The Winesap apples I used got very soft , but they still held their shape . Think of it like a ripe banana or pear - it has shape , but you can squish it really easily . After 30 minutes in the oven ( making apple crisp ) , they got soft enough that lightly pressing with a fork would squish them down . They did not stay as firm as the Yellow Delicious did and definitely not as firm as Granny Smith would .
I recommend a dedicated , rotary style coffee grinder for home spice grinding . Whole spices last longer , usually taste better , and are often less expensive than pre-ground . In many food cultures , whole spices are often toasted whole , then ground . It makes a big difference for not a lot of effort . I picked up a rotary style <URL> for $ 3 at a thrift store . I use it to grind all kinds of spices . It never needs to be washed . If it starts to taste like last weeks spices , I just grind up some rice and shake it out . It works great , I 've ground spices in the same grinder for 5 years .
The choice of one onion over another is really going to come down to personal preference based on color and flavor . Red and white onions are usually milder in flavor than yellow onions which is the reason they 're often the choice for hamburgers and sandwiches . Yellow ( sometimes referred to as " Spanish " ) onions tend to have a more pungent flavor . Sweet onions ( Vidalia , Maui , Walla-Walla , Texas 1015 ) develop more sweetness and fewer sulfuric compounds due to the mineral content of the soil that they 're grown in . This is why you can have onion sets ( small bulbs ) from any of these varieties but they wo n't necessarily be sweet ( or as sweet ) because a lot of it has to do with the makeup of the soiling they 're grown in . Two years ago I hosted Jeanne Jones ( syndicated writer of " Cook it Light " column for King Features syndicate and writer of over 33 cookbooks including " Canyon Ranch Spa Cookbook " ) for guest chef cooking classes . If I recall correctly , she said she used primarily white onions because they have a lower sodium content than any other type . Did that " mean black eyed pea salad " recipe happen to come from a certain " Low Country Cooking Class " ? If so , I used it for two reasons : not everyone will have access to Vidalia onions and it provides additional color .
Dutch oven ( a proper cast iron one , mind you ) Put your dutch oven on the stove top with the lid on , and turn on the heat until it gets hot Place the thing ( s ) to be baked inside ( but not directly touching the sides or bottom ; a little rack or other standoff will be helpful ) Put the lid back on and turn the heat way down Wait . And this is a bit of a problem because it is hard to know the exact temperature , so baking is tricky . This is also how one bakes over a campfire , though there you use coals and can get a reasonably repeatable temperature . Works better with cobbler than cake ( I have seen cakes done this way , but more often I 've seen them messed up ) , but it should do garlic bread just fine . The pure mass of the iron serves to smooth out the uneven heating from the stove . This is also the reason a proper dutch oven has a lip on the lid : so you can put some coals on there to insure the lid stays properly hot too .
Doughs are docked to keep them from blowing up with steam while they bake . Thus - you only do it in applications that you do n't want blown up - like blind pie crusts . Puff pastry applications , for example , you usually do want to blow up so you will get a lot of light layers . If you are baking a pastry with a filling then the filling will keep this from happening . If you are baking blind , even with pie weights , you should dock because the weights might not weight evenly and you might still get a bubble .
Do n't wrap the chicken in foil . Instead you can use a steamer basket inserted in a pot with the lid on ( making sure your liquid does not touch the chicken ) and steam it that way . If you do n't have a steamer basket and what you are trying to do is replace one , instead of wrapping the chicken roll that foil into balls or strips and use it to elevate the chicken above the cooking liquid in your pot . If you wrap in foil , the chicken will be cooking via the heat transfer from the foil rather than from the steam .
There 's another reason for not boiling liquids , besides the possibility of making a mess ( boiling over ) or ruining it ( scorching , etc. ) . You actually reduce the amount of flavor by boiling . As <URL> : But here 's the deal : when simmering , water is not the only thing escaping . Ever notice how when you come home to a pot of sauce simmering on the stovetop or perhaps a beautiful pot roast braising in the oven , your entire home smells of it ? Guess what : if those flavorful aromatic compounds are reaching your nose , it means they are leaving the pot . So ... if the only goal was to make there be less liquid , boiling 's fine . But if you actually want to concentrate the flavors , you want a slow simmer . The article also goes into more details about reducing alcohol , and some problems with boiling tomato sauce ( which I believe applies to most pectin &amp; other hydrocolloid thickened sauces ) .
By hunting chicken in a game preserve ? ;-) <URL> The essence of poaching chicken is a gentle boil in water , stock or other flavorful liquid . I really like poaching chunks of chicken in a thin sweet-and-sour sauce , then thickening the sauce , adding pineapple chunks , and serving over rice .
end question
start question
What can I do to add more flavor into my beef barley soup ?
If you use self-made beef stock , try boiling a bit longer , so that the flavour of the beef is a bit more concentrated . Boil your soup a bit longer . Use more beef stock and/or cubed beef . I do n't know how much herbs you put in . Maybe a bit more pepper or rosemary can make a difference .
I had the same problem with floating chillis so I now soak mine in a cafetiere .
Dry herbs are slower to release their flavors than fresh herbs ; they will need extra cooking time to impart their full flavors , so add them to the dish sooner . Since they are less delicate and need the moisture , you may also want to add them along with a liquid , to help extract out the flavors . Crushing the larger-leaf herbs up a bit may also help . Use less dried herb than you would with fresh , because they are more concentrated . Although these will help , the sad truth is that even the best-dried herbs will not have the subtle flavors of fresher ones . Edit : One other technique you might use ( if there 's minimal cooking of other ingredients ) is to soak them in oil for a long time to extract flavors . I would suggest an overnight soak in olive oil . You can get more flavor out if you heat the olive oil before letting it sit to soak ; something like 50C/125F is a reasonable temperature to dissolve more flavor compounds , without damaging the more delicate ones .
I 've never used bhut jolokias but I love spicy vegetable oil . DO NOT just throw the peppers in a jar of oil . Apparently this is bad . Follow the much more helpful links in the comments that follow this and make the oil properly . Once you do this you can cook pretty much anything that needs a little ( or a lot ) of extra heat . You said you have other peppers so it might be interesting to set up a few jars with different pepper combos . Bonus : if what I 've heard of these peppers is correct , you can probably make a low grade mace this way . If you 're looking for something to do right away , I 'd mix a very small piece in some melty cheese and throw it on some chips , burritos , pizza , or anything really . Spicy cheese rocks . Good luck and enjoy .
Here 's something useful to know . A good typical salt level for most savory foods is in the neighborhood of 1 % by weight . So if you know how much your dish weighs in grams , then add 1 % of that in salt and you should be very close to a good result . Adjust down if you are using any ingredients that are already salty , like capers . Adjust up if after the first few times you try this , it is a little light for you . You will also learn how much your salt weighs by volume so soon you can just use a measuring spoon or a pinch instead of weighing the salt .
You will get the roasty , caramelized flavors ; how much influence they will have on the overall flavor of your stew will depend on several factors including : How deeply you roast the them How much you add , proportionately , into the stew How strongly flavored the other items in the stew are Roasting the vegetables will also cook them , so you will want to add them to the stew much later , so they do n't overcook . If you google <URL> , you will find several recipes for inspiration . As to whether this is a superior , or heartier flavor , that would be a matter of opinion . You do n't mention roasting celery or onions ( partners with carrots in the classic mire poix ) , but these are also excellent candidates for roasting , as are all types of root vegetable .
Because as you are cooking your soup , water in your soup is evaporating away as steam . You might salt a soup perfectly halfway through , but after evaporation , your now thicker soup is too salty . When adding salt , wait until the end of the cooking process , as soups will reduce and concentrate the flavors as the liquid evaporates . [ Source : <URL> ]
It 's not going to be nice to drink a day later , no matter what . I 'd use it in baking a chocolate cake or something like that instead , if you ca n't bear to throw it out . The problem is not just the reheating , which will further cook the coffee and affect flavour , but that it 's been losing aroma and oxidizing for a day first . If you 're serving it to anyone you like even a little bit , serve them fresh coffee !!
I 'd stew the raspberries down with a little water ( and sugar if the raspberries are n't sweet ) until they 're very soft , then pass the whole thing through a sieve to remove the seeds . You can then either store the result in the fridge , or pour it into an ice cube tray for easy portioning and a nice cold smoothie .
Here 's a picture of some raw ground beef from the Wikipedia <URL> article so that you can see for yourself . Basically it is beef that has been run through a meat grinder , great for making taco meat , hamburgers , and the like .
( 1 ) Taste . When you salt your eggs DOES affect taste because it affects the way your tongue comes into contact with the salt . If you salt your eggs before or during cooking , some of all of the salt dissolves in the water that is in the eggs ( raw eggs , overall , are roughly 75 % water ) and is dispersed over the surface of your eggs while they cook . When you salt your eggs after cooking , crystals of salt remain on the egg and , when these crystals come into contact with your tongue directly , they produce a brighter salty taste . So basically , the way your tongue registers saltiness depends on concentration , not just amount . Think about how differently a pinch of salt tastes directly on the tongue as opposed to the way that same pinch would taste if dissolved in a drop of water . So ... the tongue registers a brighter salt taste when it comes in contact with salt directly . That does n't mean that salting eggs after cooking is better - it means that it affects perception of salt differently . Go with whichever you prefer personally . ( 2 ) Texture . Whenever I have a question about food science , I consult Harold McGee 's book " On Food and Cooking , The Science and Lore of the Kitchen . " He states unequivocally that salt DOES NOT toughen eggs . According to McGee , the only egg preparation that is harmed by the addition of salt is and egg white foam ( whipped egg whites ) . So from the standpoint of texture , salt whenever you feel called to do so . Controlling the heat when you fry an egg is the single more important factor in determining the texture of your cooked eggs .
I think isolating the fudge could be a good way to fix this . It might complicate your dish , but it might add both to the presentation as well as to the texture of the ice cream . Try getting hold of or make your own biscuit rolls ( I do n't know the name ) . Fill these up with hot fudge . The biscuit will act as isolation keep the texture of both the ice cream and the fudge . In this way the only time the two will get in contact with each other is when one breaks up the biscuit to eat it . If biscuits does n't cut it , chocolate tubes or similar could do the same trick .
Not sure how much rice you are making , but if making about 2 cups of rice , first heat 3 tablespoons of peanut oil over Medium High heat . Add the rice and toast it in the oil until it releases a nutty fragrance - about 1-2 minutes . Then I like to use Chicken stock ( 3 cups ) to finish it off . Personal preference but I like to add scallions ( green onions ) and cilantro to the rice when it is done . Cooking it this way I have not noticed a tremendous taste difference from different brands of Jasmine Rice .
If your pastry cream can handle being stirred ( most do and as you will be including whipped cream anyway ) , you should be fine . Stirring will soften your pastry cream a bit , but not make it completely liquid . You can even add the vanilla to your cream , whip it together and need not worry about stirring well enough or uneven distribution of liquid in your pastry cream .
According to <URL> and confirmed by several others I found on the internet , the Humboldt Squid produces ammonia chloride as a defense mechanism , or as a side effect of asphixiation , or maybe both . I could n't find terribly reliable advice on how to avoid the contamination , but two points were repeatedly suggested on various bulletin boards : When you catch the humboldt squid , cut its head off , clean and ice it immediately ( on the boat ) . when cleaning it , be careful not to puncture the swim bladder . The other suggestion repeatedly offered was to catch some other kind of squid . Hope that helps . For more 3rd-hand advice , search the internet for " squid ammonia flavor " and you 'll see lots of bulletin boards and similar sources .
Orange zest is where most of the oil is . This can be removed with a grater and some patience , or a peeler if you have a light touch , but the best way is a zester . They are fairly expensive and only do one thing , but they are the best tool for the job . <URL> makes a nice line , and I have no complains about mine . You want to avoid scraping the white pith from under the colored part of the skin , as it is bitter and does n't contain the flavor oils .
The dried powder in a can is your best bet , short of grating a fresh root . Though an overlingering burn is n't your thing , try pinch of cayenne in the wasabi mix to lend sweetness and more ka-boom . Generous wasabi and some <URL> are my favorite sushi companions .
The quickest way to get rid of leftover wine is to think of it as flavoured water . In many if not most recipes that call for water - especially stovetop recipes like sauces and stews - you can simply substitute wine for the water or stock that the recipe normally calls for . We actually had a similar question recently : <URL> and I 'd recommend you take a look at that , as many of the points there apply equally well to wine . Probably the best summation was in <URL> : I 'd consider stock to be just another flavorful liquid ( thanks Alton Brown ) , to be usable in exchange for others like wine , etc. . You need to be conscious of the gelatin aspect and mindful that some substitutions will be more successful than others , flavor-wise , but it 's always worth considering if stock might be a good substitute for any other flavorful liquid . Just swap the terms " stock " and " wine " and you 're good to go . Even though wine does n't contain any gelatin , you actually do need to be mindful of the gelatin aspect when substituting wine for stock , because you might have the opposite problem if the liquid is supposed to thicken . Similarly to stock , I also would n't recommend using wine in anything that you plan to refrigerate or freeze for a long period , for a different reason obviously - because it can go sour over time . So try to only use it in recipes that will be consumed in the near future . Other than that , just experiment ; whenever you 're making a savoury recipe that calls for water or stock , try using some wine instead . You 'd be surprised at how much character it can add to otherwise simple dishes . Some examples of places where you can replace some other liquid with wine : Rice or risotto Soups and sauces Deglazing a pan ( for a pan sauce ) Salad dressings ( this is an especially good use for sour/fermented wine ) Marinades Poaching liquids ( for eggs , chicken , etc. ) There really are no rules , and any time you find yourself tossing plain water into a pot or bowl , you should keep in mind that you are potentially missing an opportunity to add flavour ( which a good wine will add plenty of ) .
rfusca already gave very good suggestions for the literal question from the title . However , you can also address your problem the other way round . First , cook the soup until your noodles are al dente ( but will become just right while cooling at a normal speed ) . Take the big pot of soup off the heat . Second , take a small pot , and fill it with just one portion of soup per eater . Put it on the heat , and cook until the noodles are done . ( Alternatively , put the single portions into porcelain bowls and microwave until the noodles are ready - it spares you washing an additional pot , but I would n't nuke a good soup for no reason ) . Third , eat your cooked soup portions and let the big pot of soup slowly cool on its own . Fourth , freeze the soup from the big pot . Finis . Note that from a food safety point of view , you are better off with flash cooling the soup . But what I outlined here is probably much simple and hassle-free . Plus , 2-3 liters of soup minus a portion or two should spend less than the magical 4 hours in the danger zone while cooling . If you are doing this with a very big pot of soup and feeding lots of people , you should probably prefer a rapid cooling .
The best I can offer you comes from <URL> : The gelation of egg yolk can be partially reversed by heating after thawing . This treatment improves the functional properties of proteins . The stiffness of the gels obtained after frozen storage can be reduced by more than 50 % and become pourable at 21 ° C by heating up to 45 ° C for 1 h. Eggs do n't actually start to set until you hit 63 ° C , so if I had previously-frozen eggs , I would heat them as the above paragraph suggests . Just be very careful not to use too much heat . You wo n't get perfect eggs , but they 'll be edible .
end question
start question
How to sweeten pickled ginger to be served with sushi ?
There are two common varieties of pickled ginger in Japan ( and a bunch of less common ones ) . The " gari " is " amazu-shouga " ( 甘酢生姜 or 甘酢しょうが ) it 's usually thinly sliced and often , though not always , left uncolored , or just colored enough to leave it slightly pink instead of yellowish-white . Due to generous use of sugar or other sweeteners , it 's usually somewhat sweet , and that 's right there in the name , which roughly translates as " sweet vinegar ginger " . It 's generally made with a young ginger that has a pretty thin , moist skin . Another variety , which typically comes in the shape of thick matchsticks , is a bit saltier and , because of the thickness , a bit firmer . It 's called " kizami-shouga " or ( きざみ生姜 or きざみしょうが ) . Kizami refers to the shape , not the flavor . Occasionally this will be labeled " beni-shouga " ( 紅ショウガ ) , which means red ginger . I believe that more mature ginger is used for kizami-shouga than is used for amazu-shouga . It 's generally used to garnish and season things like yakisoba or okonomiyaki , but is not typically served with most types of sushi . The amazu shouga is more common for most sushi . So it 's possible that you 've picked up kizami-shouga instead of amazu-shouga . While there 's nothing stopping you from adding sugar or other sweeteners from the brine , that probably wo n't help that much . If you do have amazu-shouga , it 's also possible you 've just found one that does n't taste that good . The quality of packaged Japanese pickles I 've found in the US is n't all that great , though I 've occasionally found decent umeboshi . You might try a different brand , or consider pickling your own ginger . The basic process for pickling the ginger is a hybrid between salt pickles and vinegar pickles : You peel and thinly slice the ginger , and rub it with salt , leaving it for at least an hour or overnight to sweat . You 'll then add a solution of sugar and rice vinegar , occasionally with a little bit of ume-zu , which is the salty brine extracted from umeboshi-making , or beet juice , if you want to guarantee a pink color .
I think the problem lies in that the beans are not water blanched , but rather oil blanched . The technique is called " dry frying " , and is a traditional Sichuan cooking method . The oil temp is kept low to dry out the inside while cooking the outside of the food . After the dry frying you can then stir fry the food . This technique should give you the required look and texture to the food . Hope this helps .
You can try a few things . Use just the zest from the peel , and then slice and remove the pith and use just the inside . Pre-boil the lemon peels , then add them to your main dish . Remove the lemons before the bitterness gets too strong ( i.e. when you tasted the dish the first time ) but while there 's still a strong taste . This works because the citrus oils ( which are a major primary flavor contributor ) are just in the top layer of the peels , while the acid is in the inside . The pith is just plain bitter .
No , flour and starch are very different things . Starch is a molecule consisting of a chain of glucose rings . It is one of the main ways plants store energy . In practice , it is extracted from many different grains and tubers such as potato , wheat , tapioca and corn . Flour is a food ingredient made from milling a grain very finely , and frequently also removing the outer hull of the grain . If nothing else is specified , saying just " flour " denotes non-whole-grain wheat flour . It so happens that starch is a molecule present in large amount in many flours . Wheat flour is about 90 % starch , and rice flour is close to 100 % . But it is still incorrect to assume interchangeability , for the same reason that " pan " and " iron " are not interchangeable words even when you are holding a pan made from 100 % iron . In the cases where starch is less than 100 % , it is even worse to use the terms interchangeably , because the parts which are present in a smaller amount often determine the properties of the flour , making it act much differently than pure starch in the kitchen . For example , white wheat flour contains around 10 % gluten , which allows you to make risen bread with it . Update As for interchangeable usage : There are a few corner cases , as Jolenealaska 's comment point out . For example , there are applications where you only need the properties of pure starch , but you can substitute a flour which is not 100 % starch , and the remaining ingredients wo n't get into the way . Thickening is one such application , another one is preventing dough from sticking . But in general , you can not assume that starch can be substituted for flour or the other way round . You 'd have to know how it works in your recipe so you can judge if the substitution is possible . As for the word use , some starches do n't need to be extracted by a special process , because the plant part in question already consists of starch and nothing else . They are produced by milling this plant part , and they are both a flour and a starch at the same time . The prevalent use of the word " starch " or " flour " is then a matter of cultural accident , and , as David Richerby notes , it can happen that different languages or dialects pick a different term , but this happens rarely . The terms are usually distinct and not ambiguous , especially for plants where you use both , such as wheat flour and wheat starch . Appendix : nitty gritty details on the special case of corn The corn flour case is a very complicated one . There you have many words whose meaning can overlap : corn starch is only the milled inner part of the kernel . It is a flour which is also a starch . It can be modified , and then it should n't be technically considered a flour any more . cornflour is the UK term for the milled inner part of the corn kernel , as David Richerby points out . However , in many countries the word ( or its literal translation ) is used for whole grain corn flour , which is yellow , and chemically has other ingredients than pure starch . the milled whole corn kernel is sometimes also called polenta . polenta also can be a word for corn semolina , which is also a milled kernel , but the particle size is larger than a flour . yet another meaning of polenta is a pap cooked from a milled whole kernel of either size ( semolina or flour ) . the pap cooked from pure corn starch is never a polenta , it is a pudding or blanchmange . These words are also used when the pap is cooked from pure starch extracted from another plant .
Seems this is very common in Britain , where I come from , so google.co.uk did the business ! The recipe here allows storing in a cool , dark cupboard for up to six months , and it recommends leaving the eggs at least a month : <URL> This one looks good , and I like the instructions for eating ! <URL>
How long this will last depends largely on the ratio of sugar to water in the final syrup . Sugar can inhibit the growth of microbes by reducing the <URL> of the solution , but this is dependent on the amount of sugar . According to a <URL> that I consider quite reliable on these matters , a syrup composed of equal parts sugar and water ( by mass , not volume ! ) will generally keep unspoiled for about 2 weeks . A syrup with 2 parts sugar to 1 part water will keep as long as 3 months . These both assume that you 're keeping the syrup refrigerated in an airtight container , which it sounds like you are . Unfortunately , unless you know the exact ratio , it 's tough to predict exactly how long this will last . Discard immediately if you notice any of the following : Any visible mold ( hopefully this one 's obvious ) A cloudier appearance ( harder to judge since you have some suspended particles ; you might try running it through a fine-mesh strainer ) Any gas bubbles or outgassing when you open the container ( this is a sign of <URL> ) You might also consider adding a small amount of alcohol . This provides another hurdle to microbial growth , and would extend your syrup 's shelf life to somewhere between 3-6 months . I generally add about 1/2 oz of 80-proof ( 40 % ABV ) vodka per 8 oz or so of syrup . Regarding a mason jar , the main advantage these have is that they wo n't trap flavors the way that plastic can when re-used . A strongly-flavored substance stored in plastic for a time can contribute some of its flavor to the next . Since you 're storing a strongly-flavored ginger syrup in a former soda water bottle ( which is nearly tasteless ) this probably is n't a concern , but if you used the bottle again whatever you put in it might come out tasting subtly of ginger . Glass does n't have this problem .
I went ahead and tried it . I used hard-boiled yolks , as a soft and slimy one would be not really different from making the mayo in a waterbath . It turned out to be incredibly fickle . The first try , only yolk and oil , with immersion blender , split immediately and never recovered . The second try was supposed to incorporate the bad emulsion . I first made a paste from the yolk with a few milliliters of lemon juice and water , then started adding the bad emulsion , beating with a mixer this time . I got a thick suspension of yolk particles in oil , but it was n't emulsified . The third try worked at first . Again , I started with yolk and water and lemon juice , and then added the oil in really tiny amounts , half a teaspoonful at once . I used the mixer again . It emulsified , but was runny . I kept adding oil , and it was a nice emulsion , but very soft , runnier than soft peaks , like a batter . And then , one of the teaspoons of oil broke the emulsion completely :( I do n't know how the emulsion in the picture is made , maybe the sources I have heard of forget to mention that the yolk should n't be hard boiled ( mine was longer boiled than the one in the forum picture ) . If this is the case , then obviously there is nothing unusual happening here - the yolk retains some of its emulsifying power even after boiling ( I suppose it is the lecithine ) , but many of the substances which are actively helping the emulsion when heated around 70 ° C do n't work any more . So , working with cooked yolks is possible , but much harder than the normal heated raw yolks . Which makes me think that there is no reason to try further to use cooked yolks . I ca n't comment on taste , did n't try the emulsion before it split . After splitting , the yolk-containing oil is still usable as a bread dip , but does n't taste well enough to be made on purpose .
Since it sounds like they are basically a dried out batter at this point , I would turn to implementations that rely on those kind of food-stuffs ; With some further baking and possibly additional brown sugar and butter or apple-sauce , I would use them for a crumble topping . If they are coffee and cinnamon an apple-cardamom cobbler would benefit nicely . The crumbles could be incorporated into a biscuit batter recipe In all likelihood , any kind of recipe that relies on a granola could probably be referenced for further ideas . You could also use the crumble as a stand-in for oat based no-bakes . The no-bakes might feel mealy to the tooth , so not entirely eliminating the oat might work best . If you wanted to repurpose , you might try thinking of it as a material to be suspended . With an ingredient like well-blended coconut butter ( not to be confused with coconut oil or milk or cream ) you could create a base with which to make a kind of post-raw bar cookie ( basically press and chill the coconut butter in a pan on top of wax/parchment paper , pulse the muffin bits with some dates or brown rice syrup , and once the butter sets press the bits/dates mixture into the top and drizzle with some ganache or whatever ) .
Just slice it into thin discs ( a mandoline is quick ) and the kids use it as chips 'n' dip . Try some natural or Greek style yoghurt and whole seed mustard as a dip . Very crunchy and tasty If the skin is dry or blotchy I quickly run the potato peeler over it first Otherwise , just grating it into soups or stews is a nice vegetable filler EDIT Doh , forgot the best thing to use it for Coleslaw , it replaces cabbage perfectly . Or you can mix cabbage and broccoli . Just coarse grate it with some carrot , onion . Blend it up with a little mayo and yoghurt , or lemon juice and olive oil . Add some ground fennel and cumin seeds or some chopped mint for extra zing
Moisten your hands with a clean , damp towel . This helps the rice not stick . Look at any sushi bar ; the chef will be frequently moistening their hands on such a towel .
Short answer - not really . Fat is an essential component in any cake , and milk just is n't very fatty - about 5 % for whole milk . You can make cakes with milk , but they require totally different recipes : you ca n't simply substitute milk for oil . Bear in mind that you 're distributing the cup of oil throughout a whole cake , so that any one slice will only have a fraction of the oil . I assume you 'll also be sharing the cake with others , so you 'll be ' spreading the calories ' somewhat . You should be using a neutral oil like canola ( rapeseed ) oil anyway , as it has a relatively mild flavour . A popular alternative these days is to substitute all but a couple of tablespoons of the oil with apple sauce ( really ) , but this can be hit and miss and does n't work with all recipes - it usually works best with things like quick breads ( scones etc ) . Of course , there 's also the point that cakes are supposed to be a treat , and they 'd be less of a treat without the fat , in which case why bother ? If you want to be healthy , make a salad . If you want a treat , make a cake and do n't worry about the contents too much .
There is some slight confusion but there are two methods for this . You either cook the egg separately , which is how they make BiBimBop or you poach or bake the eggs if you cook the egg on top of your food . With the latter method , the eggs generally cook very quickly so it does n't take a lot of time but you are still cooking the egg using a heat source , you are not relying on the food to cook the egg for you . When you make BiBimBop using a whole egg , you fry the egg in a pan before you place it on top of the food . This is why the egg often has a bit of browning around the edges of the white . Here 's an image of a BiBimBop with a whole egg : <URL> There is a " how to make BiBimBop " video <URL> that shows ( around 8:50 in ) that you cook the egg separately and place it on top of the finished bowl . The other option is to bake or poach the egg by placing them on top of the food ( which is still on the stove ) and then covering the pan ( or putting it in the oven ) to essentially steam the egg , which is often used for hash . This gives a different final product than frying the egg and placing it on top , as the steam will cook the top of the egg while the still-cooking food heats the bottom . Here 's a <URL> of Venison Hash where they use this method at around 5:05 . And here 's a <URL> that uses the oven version of this method . <URL>
( disclaimer : I 've only heard of people doing this , not done it myself . ) Yes , it can be done . You 're looking for <URL> canning . Various places will sell you the bags , and you can vacuum seal them with a chamber vac , though you may need an upgraded heat bar . Then you can process them in a pressure canner ( or preferably autoclave ) . I 'd definitely follow the normal reheating recommendations ( the boil it 10 minutes bit ) before eating . I do n't think USDA has home canning guides for retort pouches .
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
Cheaper spirits can certainly be used in culinary applications . The results wo n't be identical , but inexpensive liquors are a lot more cost-effective since the subtle differences in flavor between middling and quality spirits tend to get masked by other flavors . This is especially true when you 're applying heat , which will burn off much of the alcohol ( though not all ) and change some of the volatile flavor compounds in the spirit . For things like a tomato sauce made with wine , a pan sauce deglazed with brandy , or a dessert flambeed with rum , the difference between bottom-shelf and high-end product will be evident only in the cost . Poor-quality vodka will have some " rough " flavors if you 're drinking it straight , and those might carry over into the liqueur in particular . Chilling will help , so you probably wo n't notice much difference in your borscht , and once you bake the liqueur into something I doubt any flavor difference will be noticeable in the final product . As a rule of thumb , the more you manipulate the spirit , the less you 'll notice its provenance . I can say confidently that using free , leftover plonk in a culinary application will be a much better use than drinking it !
I finally found the answer to this question : I was in the supermarket yesterday and on a can of lentils the ingredients listed on the side of the tin had the phrase ' firming agent ' in brackets beside the entry for calcium chloride .
The biggest concern with fish caught in the wild is the presence of parasites . You 'll have to look up which species of parasite are present in the species of fish that you wish to use , and treat it accordingly . Tapeworm is common in salmon , and several other varieties of fish have various parasites capable of infecting a human host . Most sites I 've seen suggest that you need to freeze the fish at -4 degrees Fahrenheit ( -20 Celcius ) or colder for 7 days or -31 Fahrenheit ( -35 Celcius ) for 15 hours to guarantee any parasites are dead . Many home freezers may have difficulty keeping temperatures this low . Also the freezing process , if done in a home freezer , has a good chance of ruining the taste and the texture of the meat . You may want to look into flash freezing methods to avoid this . Supposedly there are certain species of fish that do not have any parasites , or at least no parasites capable of infecting humans . You will want to do your own research on this to be certain . Beyond parasites bacteria are the other biggest concern . Make sure you put the fish into a cooler immediately , and freeze it as soon as you return home . Sources : <URL> <URL>
There are two common varieties of pickled ginger in Japan ( and a bunch of less common ones ) . The " gari " is " amazu-shouga " ( 甘酢生姜 or 甘酢しょうが ) it 's usually thinly sliced and often , though not always , left uncolored , or just colored enough to leave it slightly pink instead of yellowish-white . Due to generous use of sugar or other sweeteners , it 's usually somewhat sweet , and that 's right there in the name , which roughly translates as " sweet vinegar ginger " . It 's generally made with a young ginger that has a pretty thin , moist skin . Another variety , which typically comes in the shape of thick matchsticks , is a bit saltier and , because of the thickness , a bit firmer . It 's called " kizami-shouga " or ( きざみ生姜 or きざみしょうが ) . Kizami refers to the shape , not the flavor . Occasionally this will be labeled " beni-shouga " ( 紅ショウガ ) , which means red ginger . I believe that more mature ginger is used for kizami-shouga than is used for amazu-shouga . It 's generally used to garnish and season things like yakisoba or okonomiyaki , but is not typically served with most types of sushi . The amazu shouga is more common for most sushi . So it 's possible that you 've picked up kizami-shouga instead of amazu-shouga . While there 's nothing stopping you from adding sugar or other sweeteners from the brine , that probably wo n't help that much . If you do have amazu-shouga , it 's also possible you 've just found one that does n't taste that good . The quality of packaged Japanese pickles I 've found in the US is n't all that great , though I 've occasionally found decent umeboshi . You might try a different brand , or consider pickling your own ginger . The basic process for pickling the ginger is a hybrid between salt pickles and vinegar pickles : You peel and thinly slice the ginger , and rub it with salt , leaving it for at least an hour or overnight to sweat . You 'll then add a solution of sugar and rice vinegar , occasionally with a little bit of ume-zu , which is the salty brine extracted from umeboshi-making , or beet juice , if you want to guarantee a pink color .
Flaxseed oil goes rancid quickly , and refrigeration slows down this process . So , yes , you should do as the label says ( usually a good idea anyway ) and keep it in the fridge .
To decrease the bitterness , bring out the sweetness in the carrots by cooking for longer . The best technique I 've found to do this with carrots is frying and steaming them at a low temperature . Make glazed carrots : per 200g of carrot , peel , cut into ~ 2cm thick diagonal cuts and add 40g butter , a half teaspoon of sugar and season with salt and black pepper . In a large lidded pan over a low heat , spread the carrots out in a single layer , add the lid and cook for 25-35 minutes . Shake the pan occasionally . Push the cooking time as long as you can without letting the carrots become overly soft . This should give deliciously sweet fragrant carrot . Another thing to keep in mind is that salt is better than sugar to reduce bitterness so add as much as you can without oversalting the carrots .
end question
start question
What role does a stoneware bowl play in the baking of Artisan bread ?
You can indeed do what you ask - baking on the pizza stone with a steam pan . It works better to pour hot water directly in the pan when you put the bread in though , rather than just leaving water in the pan . You get a burst of steam and then a consistent small amount . It 's a method that Peter Reinhart advocates . The other common option - especially with high hydration doughs - is to bake it in a covered dutch oven for the first half . This approximates some of the effect of the earthen/stoneware . The steam from the bread itself keeps the environment moist . You certainly do n't need those pots for fantastic bread . Tonights loaf - no earthenware ;) ( I rushed it for dinner , so the crumb is n't what it could be . )
A cooling rack serves two primary purposes . First , it allows the cookies ( or other baked good ) to cool faster by letting air circulate completely around the cookie . Second , it prevents the steam escaping from the cookies from soaking the bottoms , and other cookies placed on top .
Those are the <URL> -- muscle meat , not organ meat . I 'm glad you 've learnt to enjoy them by intuition , as they are indeed a prized portion of the chicken . Wikipedia tells me the French call this portion <URL> : " ( only ) a fool leaves it there " , because it is little known , easily missed , and much prized .
Foor food safety , the recommendation means that the coolest part of the meat should reach the target temperature . For something like a beef or pork roast , the coolest point will be generally in the very center of the roast . For chicken or turkey , it will often be where the leg joins the body . You may need to probe more than one more place to find the coolest reading . Now , because the meat surrounding that coolest point is at a higher temperature , the meat will continue to cook after it is removed from the oven . How much of an increase will depend on how big the roast is . In other words , a large roast will have a greater thermal mass -- more meat towards the outside will be at a higher temperature , and the heat will transfer into the coolest point , raising its ultimate temperature . So , the practical answer to your question is that you need to anticipate when the target temperature will be attained . To err on the side of food safety , keep the meat in the oven until it reaches or is very close to the target temperature . With a little experience , you 'll be able to gauge how much of a temperature increase occurs with various roasts , and remove it from the oven earlier . The bottom line however , is that the roast needs to ultimately reach the target temperature .
I would add a slight clarification to hoc_age 's great answer , since the question mentions using " only yeast " and does not mention sourdough explicitly . Assuming the question is referring to commercial yeast , a long pre-ferment can still result in some sourness in the flavor . However , unlike sourdough , the types of bacteria and acids produced may not be as consistent . Sourdough cultures are selective environments that only grow certain types of bacteria , like certain Lactobacillus strains , which can survive in an acidic environment . Flour and water mixed with commercial yeast is generally not a particularly acidic environment , so all sorts of things will grow -- and your dough will resemble something like the early stages of a brand-new sourdough starter , with a variety of naturally occurring yeasts and bacteria , many of which live naturally on flour or come from air or water . Eventually the waste products from the yeast and bacteria will create acids . In comments , the question of acetic vs. lactic acid came up . The quantity of acid produced by yeast is not appreciable . However , bacterial fermentation will produce both acids ( and a few other minor ones in very small quantities ) . In general , the ratio of these two acids depends on a number of conditions as well as the ingredients . Fermenting at higher temperatures and with a wetter pre-ferment ( e.g. , a sponge ) will increase the lactic acid production compared to acetic acid , while dry-dough fermentation at lower temperatures will often have a stronger acetic acid taste . Note that acetic acid is more volatile and thus gives a stronger taste and smell , so not very much of it is required ; it also has greater mold-inhibiting properties than lactic acid . ( This is probably the original association of particularly " sour " dough with prospectors in cold temperatures ; in those conditions , the bread produced could taste much more sour . ) So it 's not only time but temperature and hydration ( i.e. , " wetness " ) of the pre-ferment which will effect how much sourness and the type of sour flavors produced . ( In sourdough , the initial amount of starter used in the pre-ferment will also be significant . ) The question asks how to avoid excessive sourness . Aside from the advice mentioned above -- especially pre-fermenting at warmer temperatures and with higher hydration -- one can also just use a soaker instead ( i.e. , water and flour , and perhaps other ingredients -- particularly grains -- without yeast ) . If the goal is to maximize other flavors beyond sourness , a soaker will allow enzymes to break down the grains and release flavors , but acidity will be less without the yeast . Another possibility is to use a " mash , " which is effectively a soaker heated up somewhat to speed up and maximize enzyme activity . Sometimes various dough enhancers ( e.g. , malt powder ) can also be used instead or in addition to speed up flavor development .
The short answer to your question is YES . The extra acid in the ingredients will hamper the second act of the double acting baking powder . The acids are timed/staged for reaction not the baking soda . The Magic Baking Powder ( happens to be in our kitchen , too ) is mostly a single acting formula since monocalcium-phosphate is a low temperature acid ( with apparently some double acting properties due to generation intermediate step of dicalcium phosphate ; per your link ) . High temperature acid for second acts typically include sodium aluminium sulfate , sodium aluminum phosphate and sodium acid pyrophosphate . You can try to counteract that by adding a bit of baking soda , but you run the risk of altering the taste and not having it all neuralized . If you really want to get pedantic , use a pH meter to measure the acidity of your dough . I suspect tasting the dough might give an indication as well . ( bitter alkaline , sour acidic ) Another test might be to mix your acidic ingredients in a bowl with some water and start adding measured baking soda until you see no more reaction ( bubbles ) and use that as a your basic of neutralizing your dough . All said and done , I agree with SAJ14SAJ that you 'll be just fine going with the existing recipe . There should be enough baking soda left to get something out of your double act . I also heard it from a world-class baker that most recipes can be done with only baking soda , let alone baking powder or double acting ones .
Firstly - shop-bought " packet " bread will keep for several days because it contains a lot of preservatives . In his excellent book Bread Matters , Andrew Whitley claims that home-made sourdough breads with very long rises have better keeping properties than home-made bread made with baker 's yeast and short rises . This , he claims , is because the sourdough yeast cultivates a culture of friendly bacteria and an acid environment , all of which become natural preservatives . My experience seems to confirm this . Bread recipes containing egg , oil or milk tend to keep for longer than those without . As @SAJ14SAJ says , bread freezes very well . Loss of flavour in the freezer is not a commonly recognised phenomenon . One option is to slice a loaf of bread , bag it and freeze it . Take as many slices as you need at a time . It will defrost very quickly at room temperature , due to its low mass and high surface area . Another option is to make rolls , part-bake , and freeze . When you need them , take as many rolls as you need from the freezer , and place in the oven , to both defrost and complete the baking . You will get fresh baking smells and flavours from this . I suspect that home-made unleavened breads ( pita , chapati , tortilla ) , without added preservatives , will not last long out of the freezer . Their advantage is that with no rise , they are so quick to make that they can be made fresh on-demand .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
I know it 's a old post . . But I just made toast in my microwave/convection combo and its ' good . . I defrosted my bread in the microwave , the put it on a the metal rack for 10 minutes at 425 . It worked !!! I know it 's 10 minutes but it allowed me to cook the eggs etc. . .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
I do n't think the bowl has anything to do with it , unless it is some sort of reactive metal , but you do n't normally find food grade bowls made of a reactive metal ? To stop surface oxidation of non-acidic fruit ( apples , bananas etc. ) coat them with a suitable weak acid . See this previous answer <URL>
What to do A dough should be generally risen by size anyway , not by time . But it is also very forgiving , so it will probably still give you decent edible bread if you do it by time . The best way is to wait until it has doubled , no matter what the clock shows . But you insist on going by the clock , do n't change the time , wait the 30 minutes . It may be underproofed ( with such a short time given by the recipe , there is virtually no chance of overproofing it ) , but the same would have happened if you were using the original amounts and going by the clock . Dough proofing and time The rising time for dough at room temperature is not affected by recipe scaling , the time it takes a specific dough to double will be the same regardless of the size of your batch . If the temperature in your proofing container is significantly different from the dough temperature , you will see some effect on rising times with different batch sizes and dough shapes , as the center of the dough will need some time to get to the same temperature as the proofing container , and warmer dough rises quicker than cold dough . This is unlikely to have a measurable effect at dough amounts used by home bakers , especially considering that the possible proofing temperature window is rather narrow .
What you are looking at here is an old , almost forgotten method of proofing yeast dough for cold conditions . I have an old cook book1 from ca. 1930 , when rooms could be cold in winter . I 'd say it 's " granny 's version of proofing in the fridge " . My book says to leave out about 1/4 of the flour , all sugar and , if used , the spices . It does not , however , say to use cheese cloth . The firm ball of dough is simply placed in a sink or bowl full of cold water , where it sticks to the bottom in the beginning . It should peel off , turn upside down &amp; rise to the surface within an hour ( or longer , if little yeast was used ) . Then , it 's taken out , first the sugar , then the flour are kneaded in , and finished according to the original recipe . I have tried it once out of curiosity , but that was probably 20 years ago &amp; I was way less experienced than today . I do not recall any major differences with the finished product ( sweet bread , in my case ) . ( 1 ) It 's in German , " <URL> ; Kochen und Backen nach Grundrezepten " .
Storing bread in the freezer you can store for several days and keep it soft . To eat , remove from the freezer and put in the oven .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
WOW ... this is a published recipe ?? <URL> It is very dangerous to put most bakeware on most stoves . Your best option would be to either originally bake in a stove-safe implement , or to transfer from a casserole to a saucepan at that point . Only , only use cookware labeled as safe for a stove ( usually only metal ) on a stove ! Period ! To do otherwise as asking for potentially deadly shrapnel . I am not kidding !
The majority of the alcohol evaporates during baking . McGee 's On Food and Cooking says ( pg 532 ) : In making beer and wine , the carbon dioxide escapes from the fermenting liquid , and alcohol accumulates . In making bread both carbon dioxide and alcohol are trapped by the dough , and both are expelled from the dough by the heat of baking . I also found <URL> , which states that some alcohol ( 0.04 to 1.9 % ) may remain . However , the report is from 1926 , so 1 . it may not be really representing modern day situation 2 . the data , methodology etc. is not reported : it looks more like an informal news than a real research article , so I can not critique on whether the results are realistic .
As for judging crumb , my favorite two terms used by German Meister Bakers are juicy ( saftig ) and woolly ( wollig ) . The first , praise for tarter breads such as sour rye ; the second for toast bread and lunch rolls . An unflattering term would be cotton ( Baumwolle ) for flavorless and dry fluff .
It is simply to add tartness to add some balance against the sugar . The water from the vinegar will evaporate and leave behind acetic acid . There is an old fashioned type of hard candy known as <URL> . Your lollipop is essentially just that candy on a stick .
Your metal bowl sitting in your 70 ° F room is 70 ° F ( at least , if its been sitting there for a bit ) . Your plastic bowl , or glass bowl , or ceramic bowl , or any other bowl sitting in the same room is also 70 ° F. They 're all actually the same temperature . Now , given , when you touch the metal bowl , it feels cooler than the plastic one . This is because your finger is n't 70 ° F , and your body heat is transferred away quicker by metal than ( say ) plastic . If the dough is room temperature , it wo n't matter -- heat is n't flowing out of it . The dough itself does n't generate much heat . If your dough started above room temperature , it will cool a little quicker in a metal bowl . But , if you wanted to keep it from cooling , putting it in a warm place is much more effective . A stainless steel bowl is fine . I 'd avoid aluminum ( and copper , if anyone makes a mixer with such a thing ) due to them being reactive , especially if you 're making sourdough .
end question
start question
How does a splash of vinegar help when poaching eggs ?
Egg whites need to be heated up to a certain temperature in order to coagulate ( " set " ) . Lowering the pH ( increasing the acidity ) of the cooking liquid is one way to lower the temperature required for coagulation of the egg whites . So , in a way , this does prevent " feathering " of the eggs , but not because of any direct reaction ; rather , the reason the eggs feather less is because they have less time to feather , because they do n't need to get as hot . Any acidic liquid will have a similar effect . White vinegar is probably the most effective , but you could also add lemon juice or wine to the poaching liquid . In fact , eggs poached in red wine sauce ( " Oeufs en Meurette " ) is quite a popular preparation method . For reference , the coagulation temperature is also proportional to the salinity ( add salt to lower the coagulation temperature , add sugar to raise it ) , and inversely proportional to the number of eggs used ( more eggs = lower coagulation temperature ) .
It does n't go into the meat , it soaks up water and becomes a slurry . The slurry is transparent , so you do n't see it . If you fry it as it is , you wo n't prevent spraying and sticking the same way it would have been possible with a dry flour layer . If you roll it again , you will have these effects again , plus slightly more heat buffering because of the double amount of crust . The crust will be more noticeable in taste , towards schnitzel style . In general , you do n't want it to happen at all . If you miss your timing and it happens , re-roll . But the proper way to do it is to roll each piece separately , directly before dropping it in the pan . This gives you the optimal effects from the flour with minimal change in taste . If you want the benefits and taste of a thick crust , make a real schnitzel , including pounding the meat thin and making several alternating layers of egg and flour in the crust . Double dipping in flour is not a good approximation , it is a middle thing which does n't approach the good parts of either technique .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
Per Harold McGee , in On Food and Cooking ( page 86 of the 2004 edition ) , there is no truth to this common assertion . Acids and salt do pretty much the same thing to egg proteins . They get the proteins together sooner , but they do n't let them get as close together . That is , acids and salt make eggs thicken and coagulate at a lower temperature , but actually produce a more tender texture . McGee explains that the salt separates into ions , which cluster around the charged regions of the egg proteins , allowing them to get closer before being denatured because they do n't repel each other . This causes them to bond together earlier , before they become unfurled and could form tighter ( and thus tougher networks ) . McGee concludes : So eggs end up more tender when salted , and especially when acidified . So salt them when you beat them , or in the pan , in practice it will make little difference compared to many other factors , such as the temperature and technique with which you cook them .
The air pressure is lower at higher altitudes ; when you add extra flour to your baked goods , it prevents them from rising too quickly or too much . ETA ( about the water ) : Water boils at a lower temperature at higher altitudes , so the extra water called for in high-altitude baking is to compensate for all the water turning to steam faster than it would at sea level .
Tough question - there are a lot of non-scientific ways to measure small/medium/large potatoes and nobody seems to agree on exactly what weight each is . However , there are a few ways I identify large vs medium at home . In my experience , a large potato is about the size you would get in a restaurant ( I know , not very specific ) . That is , when I cook at home , the potatoes I purchase tend to be medium - round ( not oval ) and about the size of a tennis ball or baseball . When I 'm at a restaurant their potatoes are noticeably larger , and generally more oval shaped it seems ( closer to a sweet potato in shape and size ) , which makes them great for stuffing like for a loaded baked potato . Luckily most of the recipes I have at home that involve potatoes do n't require precise measurement , so I just stick with my eyeball measurements and do n't even bother weighing them . I found a source online that says this : According to Shape magazine , eatbetteramerica.com and prevention , a medium potato is the size of a computer mouse , so somewhat bigger than that . And I think I can get behind that answer . I 'd say your average computer mouse ( like , one you would get with a new PC , not a fancy third-party mouse ) is about the size of an average medium potato . Another way to eyeball : I 'm a 30 year old male with hands that are neither very large or very small . The medium potatoes in this bag are about the size of a loose fist for me . So a large potato would be bigger than either of those things . As for measurements , I have a bag of medium potatoes and it says they 're 5.3 oz ( 150g ) a piece . I weighed one and it was closer to 6.5 oz ( 185g ) . Based on that I 'd say a large potato would be anything over 8oz ( 225g ) , pushing as high as 12oz ( 340g ) . I found a way to search online for this info : calories . By searching for " large potato calories " I was able to find pages with weights and measures : <URL> <URL> So , in short , it seems like I would consider these good numbers : Medium potato : 2 to 3 " in diameter , 5-8oz ( 140-225g ) Large potato : 3 to 4.25 " in diameter , 8-12oz ( 225-340g ) Below is a picture of the medium potato from my bag , compared to some common household/kitchen items . The gift card is the size of a normal credit card , and the knife is a common steak knife from my utensil drawer . Apparently a medium potato is almost exactly the size of a 1 cup measure !
While many bread and pastry products do depend critically on the formation and management of gluten from wheat flours , this is not universally true . Some types of pastry have structure dependent more on the starch networks which is the other major component of wheat flours ; the texture and properties of these pastries is often dependent on the gross mechanical manipulation of the structures , depending on how the product is manipulated . American style pie crust is a case in point . Flaky pie crust is generally manipulated in a manner which minimizes gluten production : low hydration , resting periods , and minimal mechanical manipulation . The structure and flakiness emerges because the dough is essentially a series of butter flakes or bits , coated in starch . When baked , the starches gelate and steam from the dough pushes the butter pockets apart before the butter is fully melted and integrates into the dough structure . This is not dependent on gluten formation . Taking <URL> as typical , it appears that pasta frola has more in common with flaky pie crust than it does with bread or puff pastry , where gluten formation is key . The egg in the dough will contribute mostly water ( eggs are <URL> ) . The remainder is primarily proteins ( from the albumen in the egg white , and fats from the yolk ) . This will somewhat tenderize the final pastry , and contribute an eggy flavor . It certainly does interfere with gluten formation , helping prevent a tough outcome , except in this application , gluten formation simply is not key . It will also contribute to the final color , both from the yellow pigments in the yolk , and by slightly promoting browning .
The extra eggs help to make a more cake like consistency . Other wise it 's just a stack of crepes ! To remove the eggy taste , remove half of the egg yolks . They will still cook more or less the same , and will be the same eggyness of a three egg batch
The cream whipper relies on gas expansion to work . When you make whipped cream by beating , you beat fine air bubbles into the cream . The cream traps air and becomes essentially a matrix that holds those bubbles -- a foam . Your gas-charged whipper does the same thing in a totally different way . When you charge the whipper with gas , there 's high gas pressure inside with the cream . The cream will actually absorb the nitrous oxide you put in . Because of the pressure , the gas absorbed can be thought of as really really really small bubbles within the cream . So you have a matrix of gas and cream , but because the bubbles are so small , it 's essentially just cream . Chilled liquids more easily absorb gases at high pressure , which is why it 's good to use cold cream and keep the whole unit in the fridge . A limited amount of agitation ( shaking ) exposes more cream to the gas , improving absorption . When you release the cream from the device , the absorbed gas expands rapidly . The bubbles get bigger , and your cream to bubble ratio becomes more like the foam that we know as whipped cream . It 's really exactly the same thing , only with nitrous oxide instead of plain ol' boring air inside the bubbles . Why nitrous oxide ? As I understand it , it 's because it 's the cheapest non-toxic , odorless and tasteless gas you can get . Carbon dioxide would almost be a good choice , but unfortunately it 's bitter . Not a good match for cream . Finally , why is shaking too much a bad thing ? That one I do n't know for sure , but I know what happens when you over-whip cream with the mixer . You make butter . Perhaps the gas or high pressure encourages this conversion , or maybe you 're just churning it that much when you over-shake . Either way , I 'm sure you 've essentially made butter when you shook it too much .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
Buy almost-late eggs . The worst-case scenario of egg-shelling is a farm-fresh egg . That annoying film that sticks to both the shell and to the egg will detach , the older the egg gets . The bubble at the fat end , too , will get bigger as the egg ages , which also makes the bottom cap pop off more easily . Obviously , we do n't want rotten eggs . We want the almost expired but not expired ones . Roll the egg against the countertop , cracking it along the " equator " . This will give you lots of starting points , and it will weaken the shell in enough directions that the rest of the peeling becomes easier . Usually , the top and bottom caps come off in large and clean pieces , so do n't bother cracking that part unless it sticks . Start from the fat end of the egg . After much experimenting , I 've determined that starting from the bottom of the egg ( the fat end ) is the best way to do it . Give the egg one good whack on the countertop , and the bottom caves in quite easily . This gives you a really nice starting point . Now peel out from there in a spiraling pattern down the rest of the egg . The top cap still comes off quite easily in one big chunk , if the egg is old enough .
One day on the counter at room temperature is approximately equivalent to a week in the refrigerator . When I used eggs at a rapid rate , baking every day , I always kept them on the counter , since they would not have to be brought to room temperature to beat easily to the ribbon or whatever . They should be good in the refrigerator for several weeks past their sell by date , or on the counter for several days . 6 hours is fine . ( All of the above is assuming they are in their shells , uncracked ... ) Out of the shell , eggs are highly perishable -- what the health codes call a " potentially hazardous " food . Do n't hold them for any length of time at room temperature . I would say no more than 30 minutes to an hour , less if you can . <URL> , but they do insist that the eggs are refrigerated .
Fruit relishes ( including salsas , chutneys , and plain sauces like applesauce ) can be made without vinegar . But they almost always include some extra acid - if not vinegar , then usually citrus juice . The acidity balances the sweetness of the fruit , and it preserves the color . So you can make a fruit relish , substitute lemon or lime juice for the vinegar , and use it . But of course , without a full pickling process , the fruit relish will only have a limited life in the refrigerator .
Rice wine vinegar and rice vinegar are the same thing , so that 's easy . For additional pantry-stocking : Seasoned rice vinegar is just rice vinegar with a little salt &amp; sugar added . It 's intended to be the right mixture for a number of recipes , not the least of which is sushi rice , although in my experience you 're better off seasoning plain rice vinegar to the correct balance . Rice wine is , of course , sake . Generally if you 're cooking with rice wine you want a moderately priced , clear filtered sake like Gekkeikan . The same advice about cooking with regular wine applies here ; do n't try to cook with anything undrinkable . Mirin is a specific kind of light , sweet rice wine used in braised dishes , dipping sauces , steamed fish , etc. . If you ca n't find it , buy a drinkable sake and add around two teaspoons of sugar per 1/4 cup of sake .
Eggs will last two to four days in the refrigerator . Source : StillTasty ( <URL> &amp; <URL> )
The main purpose of beating an egg is to " denature " the protein within the egg . Proteins are long chains of amino acids and they have lots of internal chemical bonds , which hold them together into tightly contained units . When a protein is denatured , those internal bonds break and the amino acid chains unravel and become elongated . At the same time , atoms that were previously bonded ( as part of the internal bonds I mentioned ) become available to bond with other molecules . When an egg is heated to 40 degrees celsius , its protein chains become denatured and elongate , which allows chemical reactions to occur . The egg changes from a liquid solution of protein into a solid mass . A similar thing happens with you beat an egg . The physical act of beating causes the protein strands to stretch , thereby causing the protein to denature ( the internal bonds are broken as a result of the application of physical force ) . So , rather than the protein chains being bound up into tight balls , they become long strands . This is similar to gluten when it is developed . These strands form structures that allow the trapping of air , which results in a lighter texture . Beating eggs is not just about mixing . It 's about changing the structure of the eggs to produce a physical effect . To read more about this , see " The Science of Cooking " by Peter Barham .
To answer your last question : yes . Regarding the previous question , it 's because the temperature at which the cocoa butter in the chocolate crystallizes affects the overall consistency of the chocolate . If you 've ever eaten a chocolate bar that was left in a car on a hot day after it has cooled down again , and who has n't , you 'll know about this . Sometimes chocolate tastes fine but has a definite ' grittiness ' to it : other things being equal , that 's usually because the cocoa butter crystals are too large . Cocoa butter has a number of different crystal forms , each of which will have a slightly different effect on texture and melting point . When melted chocolate sets , the cocoa butter crystallizes , and it will generally all crystallize with the structure that it starts to crystallize with . ( This process where crystals start to grow is called nucleation . ) So you want to have control over the temperature at which crystallization starts . The optimum crystal form for nice chocolate will tend to predominate when crystallization starts somewhere between 18-25 degrees C ( around 64-77F ) . So if you think about it : when you add room temperature stuff ( like a pretzel ) to chocolate that is considerably hotter than room temperature , the resultant temperature on the surface of that pretzel will likely be way higher than 18-25 degrees . On the other hand , if you are dipping an item that is significantly below room temp , then your chances of hitting that window are much higher . The surface structure of the thing being dipped can of course make a difference to crystallization as well , but for normal purposes that is marginal . To put it another way , it does n't matter what ingredients you 're dipping - temperature is key !
Ah , so the question is " Why does boiling the tofu change its texture ? " . Answer : it does n't . Try doing this recipe without boiling the tofu , I think you will find it is pretty much the same . I think if the boiling serves any purpose at all it is to remove any last remnant of taste from the tofu . I do n't mash tofu often , but when I do , I never boil it and I 've never had a problem .
Wine vinegar and wine are very different although are produced from the same thing . Wine vinegars are vinegars produced from fermenting wine by acetic acid bacteria which convert the ethanol in wine into acetic acid . Being a vinegar , it is much sharper than wine although like wine many flavours can be detected beyond the generic sharp lemon-like flavour , particularly in the premium aged varieties such as balsamic vinegar from Modena . Wine vinegar has no alcoholic content in it and so there is no need to ' burn off the alcohol ' which you would do when cooking with wine . Wine has a much subtler flavour and so would use it in things like gravies , sauces , etc. . Likewise , vinegar is much stronger and I would mainly use it in vinaigrettes or in small quantities in cooking ( ie finishing of a dish with a small drizzle of vinegar ) in much the same way as you might use lemon .
Yes , it matters a lot . When you are separating egg whites , it is for whipping them into a foam . This foam is a protein-based foam , relying on protein ends hooking into each other . Even small traces of fat will prevent the foam from forming . Egg yolks contain high amounts of fat . Once an egg yolk breaks in your whites , you have to start the separation anew , because it can prevent your foam from forming . Also , do n't use plastic bowls for whipping egg whites ( their surface retains some fat molecules even after washing , giving you a less stable foam ) and only whip with a cleanly washed whisk or mixer attachment ( not one you have just used for something else , not even if you wiped it clean ) . To prevent big mishaps , just separate each new egg in a teacup and only add the new white to the old whites after it has separated cleanly . Else you are in big trouble if you are separating a lot and the last egg contaminates the whole whites with yolk . And a single contaminated egg is easily reused for a quick egg-and-feta sandwich or something else . Contamination the other way round is n't so worrisome . You still want to work as precisely as possible , as yolk-only recipes will often have somewhat worse texture if eggwhite is included , but small contaminating amounts are usually not noticeable in the finished product , even in foams ( zabaglione , mayonnaise ) . This is because yolk foams are fat-based , and small amounts of protein do n't prevent a fat foam from forming .
end question
start question
Coconut rice ; should it taste like coconut ?
Coconut has a very mild flavor that is easily drowned by other things . In my experience , coconut rice does not end up tasting very strongly of coconut , although it is richer and slightly sweeter . I notice that many recipes call for salt and sugar , which are both flavor potentiators . Perhaps you could try these . At the end of the day , though , I fear you may have to use natural flavor , often falsely labeled as an " extract . " ( I have not been able to extract real coconut flavor well , and I 've never found a commercial product that does , either . ) Unfortunately , for some ingredients , this seems to be the only way to get the flavor I have come to expect from restaurants . Another such ingredient is pistachio .
Unfortunately I do n't agree with the given answers . I recently bought a $ 350 zojirushi rice cooker . According to the manual there is such a thing as " rinse-free " rice . There is even a function on the rice cooker for this setting . In addition , the rice cooker manual explains that the rice should be rinsed several times with cold water .
I 've done risotto with other short grain rices ( which includes sushi rice ) , with good results . I 've even used medium grain rice in a pinch , and you 'll have to stir more , but it 'll come out . I 'd assume the same would be true in reverse -- that most short grain rices ( incl . arborio ) would make a decent sushi ... unless it 's short grained brown rice , that 'd likely less you up . Basically , there 's three main varieties of rice : short , medium and long ( not including ' wild rice ' or how it 's treated ( white vs. brown vs. parboiled ) . So long as you stay within one group , you 're usually fine , so long as you do n't change the treatment or technique used to cook it .
Sweetness is perceived in inverse relation to temperature , so what you say is quite correct . Further along the same range , ice cream or sorbet tastes much less sweet when frozen than when you taste the initial base .
It boils down to chemical make up . Avocados , like egg yolks , contain a decent amount of fats , carotenoids , and sulfurous compounds . Avocados are one of the most concentrated fruit sources of fats and fatty acids . Both egg yolks and avocados contain carotenoid phytochemicals like lutein , zeaxathanin , and a-carotene . In avocados the sulphur is mostly in the form of glutathione , would likely break down into its cysteine during steaming . Cysteine is one of the primary sulphur sources in eggs as well . <URL>
From my answer on another question ( that justkt linked in the comments ) : <URL> Arborio rice , the classic choice for risotto , contains roughly 19 to 21 percent amylose . However , that is not the only difference . The desirable " bite " in risotto is due to a defect in Arborio rice called chalk . During maturation , the starch structures at the grain 's core deform , making for a firm , toothy center when cooked . Sorry , but for the best risotto , you really need an appropriate rice .
Ice cream depends critically on the fat in the dairy to form the structure and mouth feel . Ice cream mixes there fore are typically fairly high in dairy fat . You have substituted a comparatively low fat mock cream . which simply does not have the fat necessary to create the body of the ice cream . In fact , the so-called homemade cream recipe is just thickening milk with gelatin , the thickening agent in ... jelly ( as they in British English , Jello in the US ) . It is no wonder that your product has a jelly like consistency . Also , gelatin is not stable for keeping its thickening ( gelling ) power when frozen . Derobert is also correct in pointing out that switching from a traditional churned ice cream to a hand stirred freezer method will also alter the texture radically , although it is likely to make it grainier and icier without the milk fat to help buffer the formation of ice crystals . Ice cream is a recipe where you do not want to substitute for the specific dairy called for in this way . Ice milk recipes do exist , and will perform better .
Basmati rice is supposed to flow freely though , if it clumps , you are using it against the norm and should probably stick with a stickier rice . Usually Basmati is used Pilau style , or in a Biryiani , then the grains are slightly coated in some form of fat ( oil , ghee , etc ) , so the starch you would definitely want rid of .
The meaty taste is Umami . It is the flavour of monosodium glutamate , in the same way that salty is the flavour of salt . Both mushrooms and tomatoes of the right variety are quite rich in it , as is yeast extract . You can also just buy the stuff commercially . Do n't worry about the stigma attached to it , it 's not actually toxic or anything .
If really want to substitute for that coconut oil in this particular application , you want a pure , relatively flavorless , saturated fat . This will be one that is solid at room temperature . That means commercial shortening , such as the US brand Crisco . Update : cocoa butter itself , of course would be ideal , if you can get it . But , then you would want to temper it . In that case , well , see below ... However , in my opinion : Your best bet , if you are willing to do the necessary work , for a crisp true chocolate coating is to use ... pure chocolate . Nothing else . The trick is to ensure that your chocolate is in temper . ( You can read more about it within the <URL> ) . This means that it is melted and then cooled in such as way as to ensure the cocoa butter forms the most desirable crystals , which have a melting point near mouth temperature , and a smooth , crisp bite . You can google many detailed articles on how to temper chocolate , with many variant methods . For example , here is one from <URL> . For small batches at home , I have found the following method to be very successful , using 100 % real chocolate such as Merkens or Ghirardelli ( or many other brands ) . That is , chocolate that is made of nothing but cocoa butter , cocoa solids , sugar , flavoring , and maybe some lecithen . You do n't want other fats . In general , you should avoid chocolate chips ( which may not be true chocolate ) unless you know your manufacturer actually uses 100 % true chocolate in their chips ( a small number do ) . Break the chocolate up into small chunks ( maybe 1/2 inch or 1 cm in size ) Place in a glass microwave safe bowl . The purpose of the glass bowl is to absorb the heat from the chocolate , and then keep it relatively stable and warm . Place the chocolate in the microwave at very low power . I use level 2 on my microwave . It will take a very long time , maybe 8-10 minutes , even to be partially melted . This is okay . Every so often , stir the chocolate so it is heating fairly evenly . ( The glass bowl also helps by adding thermal mass ... ) Keep microwaving on low , until the chocolate is almost all melted , checking more and more frequently as you get close . When the chocolate is about 90 % melted , take it out and let the residual heat from the bowl and the chocolate melt the rest . Do one last stir , so that the various crystal types and seeds are evenly distributed , just in case some small part of the chocolate went out temper in this process . Again , I emphasize , patience and going slow here is the key . This method trades time for complexity . The key to this method is : commercial chocolate is already in temper . By barely melting it ( and I mean barely ) , we keep it temper . We do n't have to do all the hard stuff with thermometers and carefully regulating the temperature up to melt the bad crystals , then down to seed the good ones and so on . Once you have your tempered melted chocolate , you can use it to coat candies , cookies , or ( one of my favorites ) stir in a crunchy breakfast cereal , coconut flakes , or nuts to make little candies ... the applications are endless .
Coconut has a very mild flavor that is easily drowned by other things . In my experience , coconut rice does not end up tasting very strongly of coconut , although it is richer and slightly sweeter . I notice that many recipes call for salt and sugar , which are both flavor potentiators . Perhaps you could try these . At the end of the day , though , I fear you may have to use natural flavor , often falsely labeled as an " extract . " ( I have not been able to extract real coconut flavor well , and I 've never found a commercial product that does , either . ) Unfortunately , for some ingredients , this seems to be the only way to get the flavor I have come to expect from restaurants . Another such ingredient is pistachio .
Swai and catfish are biologically related , but Tilapia is a Cyclid and as such quite far removed . I think the biological relation is not all that critical to their similar taste which you dislike though . The taste of fish relies on a few factors such as : Their living environment ( Fresh , brackish , salt water ) The type of soil on the water bottom ( silt , sand ) The diet of the species ( other fish , water based plankton or bottom dwellers ) Catfish is a bottom feeding freshwater species and likely to have a relatively similar taste to other species that share their living environment and diet . As such I 'm willing to bet you also do n't like the taste of Carp very much . Perhaps the solution lies in finding a fish that has a similar texture to Catfish but is a sea dwelling fish eater . That way you might get the appreciation from your eaters while being able to enjoy your own dishes more .
I can get soy beans in two varieties here : As dried beans and as edamame . Edamame is a particular type of soybean that is harvested when it is still young . The pods are cooked ( usually boiled or steamed ) and then served with salt . The beans are popped from the pod and eaten . The pod is discarded . Edamame is sweet and a little grassy because it is young . Dried soy beans can be cooked like any other bean . Their hulls tend to come free and have an unpleasant texture so it is nice to skim most of them off . The flavor is good but not unique . It tastes like a normal white bean . The raw beans have a very strong " beany " flavor but cooked beans should not . Soymilk is made from dried soybeans . The beans or the milk are cooked to remove the very strong beany flavor . The finished milk does have a hint of sweetness and bean but not strong at all . Tofu , made from soymilk , tastes the same as the milk . Besides being sweet and a little beany , it can be a little nutty tasting . It can get chalky if it is n't fresh . All of these soybean preparations are very bland . They tastes fresh and clean but there should n't be any overly strong flavors . Strong flavors in these products are often a sign that the product is past its prime . Some soybean preparations ferment the beans . These have a wide range of flavors and textures .
There are really only a few secrets to good fried rice : Day Old <URL> ( Make it the day before , let it cool , place it in the fridge ) This I 'd say is absolutely , the main thing . The texture will NOT be right if you use freshly cooked rice . There will be too much moisture . HEAT ! Your <URL> needs to be hot . You want everything to cook quickly . Cook stuff separately . This is a follow-up from 2 . You want it all to cook very quickly , a crowded pan will hinder that . Cook Meat to 80 % , take it out , cook the other stuff , add the meat back in . Do n't touch it . Unless you have a blazing professional burner , your food needs time against the wok . Put it in , leave it for a bit , mix it some more . Fish Sauce &amp; Chinese Sausage They add great flavour . If it all seems complicated , it really is n't . Use day old rice &amp; give it lots of heat . Here are a couple of recipes that give further detail and have great explanations : <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Rasa Malaysia
Are you just using eggs for your filling ? Most quiche fillings are a custard , with milk , cream , or other dairy as well as eggs , and often cheese as well . It sounds like you are over beating your egg or custard mixture , and inadvertently incorporating air . In general you want minimum air in a quiche filling , so whisk or stir it briefly until it comes together , but not extra . Its harder to tell from the description , but you may also be over baking the quiche . You want to cook it until the center just barely jiggles , about 180 F / 82 C.
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
Absolutely you can ! It 's a popular choice with Chinese and Indian flavor profiles . You can just treat it exactly like you would any other leftover rice . It 's a lovely ingredient to work with . The nutty Basmati flavor works beautifully however you choose to season fried rice .
There are two types of sesame oil you can normally buy . Pure sesame oil ( or just sesame oil ) has a mild sesame taste . Refined sesame oil is used as a cooking oil and only has a hint of sesame flavour . Toasted sesame oil is made from toasted sesame seeds ( and therefore tastes like toasted sesame seeds ) . Aside from the labeling , you can easily tell it apart from pure sesame oil by its much darker colour and stronger aroma . It is not a cooking oil , it 's more of a condiment and used frequently in Asian cooking . Neither of these taste exactly like sesame seeds on a bun , obviously , but the sesame flavour in toasted sesame oil in particular is very noticeable .
There 's no point drinking wine and not enjoying it . The point of wine with food is that , if you enjoy the wine and enjoy the food , you 'll enjoy both together even more . But if you do n't enjoy the wine , you 'll enjoy the food less if you force yourself to drink wine with it . Is there anything you do like about wine ? If not , I suggest you ignore it for the time being . If you 're curious , you 'll come back to it in your own time , whenever you 're ready . If you 're not , it does n't matter : there 's nothing wrong with not liking wine . If there is something you like about wine , for example , the aroma or some component of the taste , I suggest you keep trying it but do n't force yourself . Taste it every now and again and , if you still do n't like it , wait until you want to try it again . This is what I did with whisky . As a teenager / young adult , I really liked the smell of whisky but did n't like the taste -- in hindsight , it was probably the alcohol content that was the problem . Every now and again I 'd have a taste from my father 's glass or from somebody I was drinking with at a bar . For a long time , I did n't like it but I still liked the aroma so I kept trying a couple of times a year . Eventually , I started drinking it . A few things to bear in mind about wine . Avoid cheap wine and do n't waste your money on expensive wine that you wo n't appreciate . Low price is n't a guarantee of low quality and high price is n't a guarantee of high quality but it 's worth spending , say , twice the price of the cheapest bottle if you 're at the supermarket . That 's likely to lift you into wines that you 're disliking because you dislike wine , rather than because they 're bad . Red wine , poured straight from the bottle often tastes rather harsh . Open the bottle half an hour or so before you want to drink it and let it sit in the glass for a couple of minutes before you drink . Wines ( especially red ) with just one or two grape varieties named on the bottle usually have simpler , less challenging tastes . Sweeter white wines will probably be more appealing to you than drier ones . Try something like a sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay , rather than , say , a pinot gris/pinot grigio . Riesling can be anywhere from super-sweet to mouth-puckeringly dry depending on what the winemaker did . Supermarkets in the UK sell quarter-bottles of decent-but-not-amazing wine . That 's a good way to try lots of different styles without having to spend a lot of money or feeling that you 're wasting a whole bottle if you do n't like it . This suggestion is heresy but ... consider chilling red wine . Chilling tends to make harsher flavours less noticeable . If you find you like it chilled , try chilling it less . Ask a wine merchant . Specialist wine merchants love to talk about wine . Do n't be embarrassed to walk into one of their stores and say , " Hi . I like the idea of wine but I 've never found a wine I like drinking . " Their eyes will light up because this is a challenge to them to use their skills to make a customer really happy . If you buy a couple of bottles on their recommendations , you 'll be their favourite customer of the day , I guarantee . Doubly so if you go back a week later after liking what you bought . Go for it !
Yes , I think you can . The page you link does list the oil as " food grade " , and specifies no added solvents ... so there 's probably nothing dangerous in the jar and it can be safely used for cooking . In general , though , you usually should n't equate cosmetic treatments and edible substances , even if some of the ingredients are the same ( soaps often do this , list all food sounding ingredients until a second glance reveals it , well , soap ) , or even if the base substance is the same but may have undergone different processes ( like coconut oil or cocoa butter ) . If the coconut oil had been processed with some non-food grade solvents or processes , it might be perfectly safe for topical application , and still be quite dangerous to consume . If you are questioning whether a substance might be an ingredient as well as a cosmetic treatment , look up the information , and I mean brand-specific product page , and see if it mentions " food grade " - that means exactly the bit of information you 're looking for , that it is of a high enough quality that it passes the tests they use for product meant to be eaten .
end question
start question
Is it possible to fry vegetables in cream ?
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
The answer to your first question is basically the answer to your second question with associated risk analysis ( i.e. , if yes , is it worth it ? ) . So to answer your second question , yes it does seem likely that most plastic containers <URL> under some conditions . Furthermore , many of the compounds that are released from plastics have not been fully tested , so the absence of specific information on their risk is not evidence of an absence of risk . Since it does appear that these plastics can release harmful compounds under certain conditions then the answer to your first question of is it safe , boils down to " are you replicating an environment where enough endocrine mimics are released to cause harm ? " Given the lack of research on all of the ways in which plastics leach and the fact that there is <URL> , I personally would conclude that the risk exceeds the inconvenience of having to find a non-plastic container to transport your tea .
One thing we have found that helps in adding flavor during the steaming process is to slice garlic thinly , and line the bottom of the steamer basket with the garlic . Then afterwards , toss the garlic in with the potatoes and add salt/pepper/etc . ( I 'd probably add paprika , onion powder , and a pinch of cayenne . ) I would imagine orange or lemon peel might work the same as garlic when steamed , although you might get better results tossing the steamed veggies with some zest . You can also toss the steamed potatoes with vinegar or lemon juice ( whether or not it 's combined with oil is up to you ) along with the spices . Another option would be to bake your potatoes rather than steam them . Just wash , poke , and bake at 350F for 1 hour . There 's no more fat , but the flavor and texture are VERY different . Just make sure not to wrap them in foil , since you wo n't get the same results . ( Wrapping potatoes in foil is essentially steaming them , and the crust wo n't get crisp . )
If you whisk egg whites to much they will definitely separate . Basically you are over tightening their stretchy proteins which squeeze out all the water . You are left with useless protein fluff floating on water . The flavor and odor will not change , however . That would be a sign off spoiling and unrelated to the whisking .
Whipped cream is whipping cream after it has been whipped . Whipping cream is just cream with at least 30 % fat content ( that would be called Light Whipping Cream in the US ) . Heavy Whipping Cream contains at least 36 % fat and up to 40 % and rarely ( in the US ) even higher . Until these creams are whipped , they are just liquid . After they are whipped , they 're fluffy . A way to know that whipped cream is " done " is that it holds " peaks " , like in the first picture . Higher fat cream will thicken more readily , and hold its structure longer . Other countries use different terms for various levels of fat in cream . <URL> Whipped Cream : Whipping cream :
Reading through the <URL> on that episode of Good Eats it seems that he intended for the recipe to be done with the ice cream type rock salt : I also like plain old rock salt . Not only is it good for de-snowing , de-icing your , your front stoop , it 's good for , of course , making ice cream , and believe it or not , for baking stuff . That being said , I would personally feel fine using the rock salt since it does n't come in direct contact with the edible portion of the shrimp . But if I were buying bulk salt specifically to salt bake I 'd err on the side of caution and purchase <URL> which has very coarse grains and is safe for consumption .
Official : No definitive answer , there are different governing bodies and plastic wraps ( cling films ) in the US/Europe . There are also different plastic wraps for different purposes , microwave safe , safe for use with fatty foods , so on . Whether its safe or not will depend on the product used and most likely the time boiled for . The UKs Food Standard Agency <URL> - " Do not use cling films where they may melt into the food , such as in conventional ovens or with pots and pans on cooker hobs " . The cling film industry are understandably much more <URL> . Practical : I 've poached eggs using cling film for ages and I 'm still here . Read the plastic wrap boxes for warnings and choose the plastic wrap that 's most suited . Poach an egg as described <URL> ( as of 2016 , link requires registration to read ) and check if the wrap comes away cleanly , If so you 're good . I 'd revisit this advice if your recipe called for cooking like this for longer than 5-10 minutes , there are likely more suitable products/recipes for extensive boil-in-the-bag manoeuvres .
For pan frying you probably want to start with a firm tofu . It 's a good idea to press the tofu to remove excess water : wrap the tofu in a cloth and place it between two cutting boards , weighting the top cutting board with a heavy book or other similar object . Wait at least twenty minutes ( you can prepare the rest of the vegetables/onions for the stir fry at this point . Once the tofu has been pressed , cut it into the desired pieces . It 's a good idea to fry it at medium-high heat in only oil first , then add sauces ( soy sauce , vinegar , whatever ) only after the tofu begins to brown slightly . Note : the above wo n't simulate deep-fried tofu . For deep fried tofu , you may want to use a softer tofu , still press it before using , and coat the cubes in corn starch before frying . Of course you probably know you can deep-fry at home with just a large pot of oil . For a different texture you can freeze the tofu before frying . Although not fried , I would also recommend that you try baked ( marinaded ) tofu to see if you like that texture/flavor better . You would still want to press the tofu , then slice it rather thinly . You can reapply the marinade during baking for more flavor .
Short answer : storing food in an open can is normally safe for a short period , but inadvisable . Longer answer : There are three main issues with storing foods in an open can . They are metal oxidation , contamination , and funk . Oxidation . As commenters have observed , cans used to be made of tin , which is toxic . Modern cans are made from either steel or aluminum . If the contents of the can are acidic , cans are lined with a polymer ( plastic ) inner layer . If that layer is broken -- say , by a major dent in the can or by using a knife to scrape out contents -- then the acid can get to the metal and , over time , corrode it , and some of the now-oxidized metal will dissolve into the food . As far as we know , the oxidized metal is not toxic , but it tastes horrible . Contamination . Any open container of food can become contaminated when an airborne water droplet ( tiny -- microns wide ) containing a nasty microbe drips or settles into it . The major biological culprit here is Listeria , which can grow in any moist environment , including spaces refrigerated below 40F ( 5C ) . Also , if juices from your raw meat drips onto an upper shelf , which later gets wiped inadvertently into your container of ready-to-eat food , you are likely to get Salmonella or E coli . This risk can be mitigated if you keep your raw meats on the lowest shelf , but not eliminated . Also , it is worth noting that contamination through this pathway is a relatively rare event -- but even so , it is not worth the risk . Funk . Have you ever put an ice cube in your beverage and notice your beverage tastes strange ? The chemical compounds that give food their flavor tend to be volatile ( meaning they will readily leave the food into the surrounding air ) . Also , the mustiness of a refrigerator/freezer is due to volatile compounds produced by mold and mildew . Foods that are wet and/or fatty can be molecular velcro to these compounds .
Yes , it 's safe . It 's not acidic , and thus wo n't corrode the foil or cause it to leach in . Personally , my favorite was to store celery is in the crisper , in a vented tupperware container , lightly moistened . This extends lifetime somewhat .
I 'm a fan of prepping some vegetables for the week on a day off . I 'm much more likely to eat salad if I have the fixings ready in my fridge . I 'm no expert , this is just what I 've found works best for me . Certainly some vegetables are more suited to cutting and storing than others . I find controlling humidity and condensation in storage to be the most important factor . I store almost everything in covered pyrex , unless it needs to breath ( and those go in the humid compartment ) . Veggies with less water can be kept humid with a lightly moist paper towel on top . Wetter veggies can cause condensation and lead to sliminess . A dry paper towel and/or an open container can help with that . A veggie should either be submerged in water , or not in water at all . Sitting in condensation is that biggest problem in storage . Cut carrots keep in water for a week with no change in quality . Out of water , they can dry out a bit . I do n't find the dryness to be a problem . Sliced bell peppers keep pretty well with a moist paper towel in the container . I find onions to be pretty indestructible , though the flavor gets a bit milder over time . Broccoli and cauliflower are also pretty hardy . A dry paper towel or two will deal with water from washing them , which is the biggest problem I 've had . Mushrooms and leafy greens need to breath . Cucumbers and tomatoes do n't store as well as others .
Sure , why not ? It probably wo n't turn out quite like the stuff you get at the store , but all you need is cream , a way to churn air into it , and enough agitation that the milk fat molecules start to clump together . It will require some manual work once you 've got the butter and buttercream separated . But the food processor will get you most of the way there without too much of an arm workout . Check out this <URL> with a food processor .
You have several options for the crust . It is possible to purchase mixes that will get you started . There are also several recipes available . A good resource for all your gluten-free baking is <URL> , and you can find a recipe there . Another great option is former pastry chef <URL> at Tartlette . <URL> has compiled a list of gluten-free baking recipes which may also provide you good jumping off points . You can make a dairy free crust by replacing butter with lard or vegetable shortening . Margarine is likely not be dairy free . Lard will provide a texture and taste that is better than an all shortening crust , but shortening is easier to find in stores . If the dairy free requirement is a requirement to avoid casein , you will have to do some experimentation on your own to find an appropriate egg replacement , as gluten free crusts appear to require eggs to hold together . Options for egg replacers can be found <URL> and <URL> . Once you have assembled a crust recipe from these tips , if you have questions about it or are struggling you can ask a follow-on question here about how to improve the crust and the community can provide specific help on a provided recipe . In general it appears that the gluten free crusts available are actually similar to work with versus a regular pie crust , something that is not always the case in gluten free baking . As usual you want to do everything cold and refrigerate your dough over night . Pie dough of all forms is easiest to roll when you place it between two floured sheets of parchment paper . Remove the top piece of parchment paper , flip the bottom piece with crust on it ( hold it all together , because your crust should n't be sticking ) into the pie plate or onto your pie , and remove the top piece . Apple pie is sometimes thickened with flour , and obviously you do not want to do this when cooking gluten-free . The absolute best pie thickener is actually not flour , so you are set here . In taste tests the editors of Cooks Illustrated determined that instant tapioca , a gluten-free product , is the best pie thickener . Make sure , however , not to use more than 2 tablespoons or your pie may be gummy . Since apple slices contain pectin , you should n't need more than 2 tablespoons for your pie to set up . Sugar , apples , and the usual apple pie spices ( if you choose to spice your pie - with good apples you can actually make an amazing pie with simply sugar , instant tapioca , and apples ) should all be gluten free and dairy free , with the usual caveat that in gluten-free cooking and baking you want to make sure that there has been no gluten added to anything by carefully reading labels .
The reason popcorn can be popped is that they have a water-impermeable hull , which contains the pressure of the steam created inside the kernel as it is heated , until it passes a critical point . When that happens , the steam explodes out , breaking the hull , and creating the popcorn . Some of the other puffed products are more complex , as the link you have already found shows . Potatoes do not have a water impermeable skin , and so can not be puffed in the same manner as popcorn . There is a dish -- sometimes called puffed potatoes -- where the steam inside fried potato pieces is used to puff them up , but it will not be similar in texture to puffed grain . See <URL> , for example . They will be more akin to fluffy french fries ( or chips , as they say in Britain ) . There is another dish called puffed potatoes , which are essentially a choux paste with potatoes that are baked or deep fried . They are a great dish , but are a different type of thing entirely . See <URL> from the great Jacques Pepin .
You can just soak beans until they are ready to cook . Depending on the bean , it would have variable soak times ; but many beans left in water will come to a nice toothsome texture of their own accord ( bear in mind they will need to be either sprouted or cooked at the end ) . Assuming you have a watertight container for a serving of beans to store them while they soak ( I like small pyrex containers for portage ) , you could also toss them into the skillet or other cooking utensil to boil them . This way you could carry multiple days supply dry , which would make them light and not prone to spoilage but for the quantity soaking . Frequently , co-ops and health food stores have bulk bins with varieties of dried beans and charts detailing soak times ; you could mix your own medley by bagging a few different ones that all have approximately the same soak time .
If you have a recipe that already produces a dense fudgy brownie and you 're looking to do it without oil , you 're just out of luck . If you 're looking to produce a dense fudgy brownie and wondered if , while you were at it , you might cut back on the oil ... NO , but here are some suggestions for making a cakey brownie more dense and " fudgey " : Follow Tim 's advice above on using butter instead of oil . It 's not doing anything as far as calories but it will produce better flavor vs. a neutral oil . However , particularly if you 're planning to put nuts in them , you could replace a portion of the vegetable oil with walnut or hazelnut oil for enhanced nutty flavor . Replace half of the whole eggs with egg yolks . Cakiness in brownies is partly due to the use of whole eggs . Egg whites have a drying effect on baked goods . In converting a brownie recipe I did , I used 2 egg yolks for each whole egg . Replace part of the granulated sugar with corn syrup . They hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture and retain it ) of the corn syrup will create a more dense moist result . I think I replaced about half the sugar with corn syrup . The added moisture of the corn syrup will help to off-set the loss of moisture from removing the egg whites . Method/Technique : Heat chocolate , butter , cocoa powder over a hot water bath until chocolate is melted . Stir to blend to a smooth consistency . Set aside to cool slightly . Beat egg yolks/whole egg with sugar and corn syrup until thick , light in color , and mixture forms a " ribbon " . Combine dry ingredients and make a well in the center . Temper chocolate into egg/sugar mixture . Mix to blend well . Add to dry ingredients and fold together just until moistened . Pour into greased pan and bake until set .
I assume you are referring to standard , grocery store , cavendish bananas - They have a ton of water and sugar and have a very delicate texture . This makes them easily disintegrate and get gummy instead of crisp . The key is to deep fry them at a fairly high heat until they are dark and crisp . It also helps to use greener bananas that will hold together better . Butter is not well suited to this because of the necessary oil depth and high heat . Not only would it take a fair bit of butter but the butter would start to burn . Even clarified butter would n't be ideal . Vegetable oil or shortening would be the way to go . Additional notes : To make frying them easier bananas are often coated in something starchy - like a tempura batter . Recipes abound and they are , in my opinion , much better than frying the bananas on their own . <URL> Plantains are more often fried because they are much more starchy than Cavendish bananas . Plaintains actually become sweeter when fried .
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
In the star trek world you have plenty of beings with body temperatures higher or lower than humans , so if you had a being with a body temp of 79C then ethanol would work out perfectly ! However , with humans the liquid which would fit the bill of vaporizing just below body temperature would be Pentane , which not only smells bad but is also toxic . The science behind it is wrong anyway , you 'd want a liquid with a much lower vaporization point than body temperature so it would boil off quickly . If you pick a liquid that boils just below body temperature it would take some time to vaporize and you would n't have the same effect . All is not completely lost , you can still have some cool effects with liquids that are safe for consumption . What you have to remember is that the closer a liquid gets to its boiling point the more it evaporates , and any volatiles in it will tend to remained suspended in the vapor and be detectable by the nose . This is the effect you get when you sniff brandy or cognac that has been brought up to body temperature . You can savor it by holding it on the tongue for a few seconds and letting the vapors fill your nasal cavity . So all you need is some strong ( at least 80 proof ) and flavored ( or more accurately scented ) alcohol , and the right glasses . Brandy snifters would work best as they are designed to capture the vapors so they can be inhaled . You could then heat the liquid to just above human body temperature and then serve . Keep the quantities served down unless you want some very drunk guests !
Yes ! Cooking with extreme heat is the killer of nutrients in vegetables . Therefore in traditional stir frying , timing is important . The goal is to coat all the vegetables with oil and searing their outer surface and not allowing the heat to transfer into the core of the vegetables . I personally do not like to cook with that kind of a heat , it is just too violent . Instead , I let the vegetable to stay in room temperature and cook them with medium heat , in a regular non-stick pan . However , I stop cooking them while they are still firm , lightly golden and vibrant .
end question
start question
Is there a way to make jam or chutney without Gelatin / Pectin ?
From the National Center for Home Food Preservation : <URL> <URL> Use a mixture of 3/4 ripe and 1/4 under-ripe high-pectin fruits . Under-ripe or just barely ripe fruit contains the most pectin . Cook the fruit with cores and peels to add extra pectin ( but do remove stems or pits ) . Put through a sieve before adding sugar and spices . Citrus peel contains lots of pectin , so consider adding some of it to your mixture . Fruits low in pectin : apricots , blueberries , cherries , peaches , pears , raspberries , and strawberries . That 's not saying you ca n't make jam/jelly/butter from these without added pectin . It just may be a little more difficult than , say , using apples . In fact , as an example , here 's a <URL> w/o pectin .
They are both soft-ripened cheese , and there are certainly many similarities , but they are by no means the same . Camembert is aged at least 3 weeks ; Brie may be aged as little as 1 week . Brie is generally drained for 18 hours ; Camembert is drained for 48 hours . Brie may be salted before aging ; Camembert is not . Brie is more often pasteurized than Camembert ( although " genuine " Brie is unpasteurized ) . That said , there are many different varieties of Brie and many different varieties of Camembert , and it would n't be too surprising to find at least one Brie that tastes exactly like another Camembert . Still , they are quite different - different moulds , different draining , different aging .
If corn syrup works , it seems to me that simple syrup ( i.e. a saturated solution of sugar and water ) ought to work , too .
In professional smoothie/frozen youghurt/fruit shake shops , you 'll usually see the fruit frozen in small pieces for easy portioning . So raspberrys and blueberrys are fine , but you 'd wnat to quarter strawberrys and cube mangoes or apples or kiwis or whatever before freezing them . The freezing process itself is important to the strucutral integrity of the fruit , and will affect its texture . However , if you only want them for smoothies/blended drinks , that is n't very important . As a usage note , remember that a home freezer compartment is usually at -4 degrees Celsius , whereas a chest freezer ( deep freeze ) would more commonly be at -18 degrees . A good blender wo n't mind either way , but your lips might find it a bit cold . Also , you might find you can buy the fruit pre-frozen from the same vendors the shops get them , in which case it will be prepared for you , and all you need is to defrost and blend . Aside from saving you the work of peeling and chopping , their freezing process may be better , and it 'll probably end up being cheaper too .
If you 're drinking the espresso shot on its own , you could drink it straight from the shot glass - or , better yet , buy an <URL> , which should be about the same height as your shot glass . ( A <URL> will help keep it warm . ) If you 're pulling espresso shots to be used in other espresso-based drinks ( i.e. , if you 're adding some sort of milk or water to it ) , you could try an <URL> , which basically looks like the sort of small pitchers you 'd use to serve cream ; they 're normally about 3 oz , small enough that it would probably fit under your espresso machine . You could brew the espresso into the pitcher , then pour into your mug ; the spout/lip of the pitcher should help preserve the crema once you figure out what the optimum pouring speed is . It should work similarly to pouring steamed milk : pour too fast , and the foam and milk come tumbling out all at once and you ruin the foam , too slow and the foam gets stuck in the pitcher . But if you pour just right , you should be able to pour most of the liquid first , and wind up with just enough liquid left to slide out the foam so it lands on top of your drink .
This depends on what you mean by a gelatin " substitute " . What you have to understand is that while most hydrocolloids have gelling and stabilizing properties , they are not simply interchangeable . You ca n't substitute one of them 1-for-1 where you need gelatin and expect everything to just work . A great place to start would be the <URL> which , despite its name , is almost more of a cookbook , because it has detailed information on the properties of each hydrocolloid . <URL> is actually a stronger gelling agent than gelatin in the sense of having to use less of it to get the same strength , but you need to use it properly . The most important property of agar is that unlike gelatin , which gives hydration at temperatures as low as 50 ° C , agar requires a temperature of 90 ° C . In other words , you need to heat the water all the way to a rapid boil before the agar will actually " activate " . A light simmer is not enough . The other notable property of agar is syneresis , which is the loss of moisture over time . Agar sets extremely fast compared to gelatin and above room temperature , but unless you combine it with a small amount of <URL> , it will actually dry out . Otherwise , though , you can absolutely , definitely substitute agar-agar for gelatin if you actually get pure agar ( I made the mistake of buying the " dessert agar " once , which is not the same thing ) and hydrate/set it properly . In fact , the biggest concern with using agar as a substitute for gelatin is that you might end up with something too stiff , since gelatin produces a much softer gel . Perhaps the closest hydrocolloid to gelatin in terms of its properties is iota type carrageenan . Here 's a side-by-side comparison of the most important characteristics ( this is all taken from the HRC ) : Property | Gelatin | Carrageenan | Agar ------------------ + ----------- + ------------- + --------- <URL> | Yes | Yes | Yes Strength | Soft | Soft | Hard Elasticity | Elastic | Elastic | Brittle <URL> | No | Yes | No Hydration | 50 ° C | 70 ° C | 90 ° C Setting Temp . | 15 ° C | 40-70 ° C | 35-45 ° C Setting Speed | Slow | Fast | Fast Melting Temp . | 25-40 ° C | 45-80 ° C * | 80-90 ° C Viscosity | Low | Medium | Low Gelling Conc . | 0.6-1 .7 % | 1.0-1 .5 % | 0.2 % Syneresis | No | No | Yes You should be able to see by this how much closer carrageenan is to gelatin ; trouble is , it 's difficult to find , and you have to get the right kind ( the kappa type and other types have very different properties ) . There 's actually an even better type of carrageenan to use a gelatin substitute , if you can find it : It 's called <URL> and it 's specifically designed to be a gelatin replacement . I 'd like to also note for the record that the answer in your <URL> is not really appropriate for gelatin desserts that need to hold their shape . Xanthan gum is a fantastic and versatile hydrocolloid but ( to the best of my knowledge ) it does not " set " the way that gelatin , agar , or carrageenan do . It 's more of a thickener/emulsifier/stabilizer , at its highest concentrations being used to produce foams ( but not gels ) . It 's often used to stabilize other gels/foams but I 've never heard of it being used to create a gel on its own . Guar gum is also largely just a thickener , that you could use a stabler replacement for corn starch or arrowroot , which is also mentioned in that answer . None of these are appropriate at all for gels ( desserts ) , they are only useful as thickeners .
Cook it less , if you can . The more you cook it , the more you get that smell . Perhaps you are just more sensitive to it than most ; I do n't generally notice it until it 's overcooked by my standards . Along with this , cook it as fast as you can . The flavor you do n't like is produced by enzymes converting precursor molecules into those with the flavor . From On Food and Cooking : Heating cabbages and their friends has two different effects . Initially the temperature rise ... speeds the enzyme activity and flavor generation , with maximum activity around 140F/60C . The enzymes stop working altogether somewhere short of the boiling point . If the enzymes are quickly inactivated by plunging the vegetables into abundant boiling water , then many of the flavor precursor molecules will be left intact . ... If the cooking period is prolonged , then the constant heat gradually transforms the flavor molecules . Eventually the sulfur compounds end up forming trisulfides , which accumulate and are mainly responsible for the strong and lingering smell of overcooked cabbage . So as suggested by others , boiling instead of steaming to reduce cooking time helps . So does cooling quickly , with cold or ice water . Boiling in excess water will also leach some out , but you might also lose flavor you like . A couple other thoughts , also from On Food and Cooking . Cabbage family vegetables grown in the summer , and under drought stress , produce more of the flavor precursors , and those grown in the autumn and winter with less light and more water have less . They 're also more concentrated in the core of the vegetables . And for cabbage , you can remove a lot of them by chopping and soaking in cold water ; conceivably the same could work for broccoli , but again perhaps at the cost of desirable flavor .
It 's best to use a wooden pestle , but the back end of a wooden utensil can get the job done . Muddle the lime and sugar in the bottom of the glass first . The goal is to get a good syrup . Put a bit of mint ( 2 leaves ) in last and lightly muddle so as not to break them up into bits . Add your ice to the top of the glass . Add your Rum , and then add your Club Soda then mix by moving your utensil up and down through the ice . Add a couple of mint leaves during this process . The ice will help bruise the mint during the mix . Finally , take about 12 mint leaves in your hands . Clap your hands together to bruise the leaves helping to induce the mint juice/flavor out . ( I 'll bet that rolling pin method would work well here ) . Jam the leaves down the ice with your utensil .
Chilies are dried before grinding . There are several ways to dry them : Leave them in an exposed part of the fridge for several weeks . There should be a lot of open air around it , to allow moisture to escape . String them up outside . To do this , poke holes and run strings through them and tie the strings up so they 're spread out . For best results , you should do this during hot , dry weather , and ensure they get plenty of sunlight . Expect it to take several weeks . Oven-dry them at low temperatures . You want temperatures to be under 150 ° F/65 ° C so as not to cook them , and it will take several hours to a day or two . Reduce the temperature if you see the peppers darkening or turning black . Rotate the peppers regularly to allow even drying , and leave the oven door slightly open to allow moisture to escape . If you wish to have a little more roasted flavor , increase the temperature . Use a freeze-drying machine or dehydrator . Discard any peppers with rotten spots , both before and after drying . Before grinding , remove stems and seeds . Grinding : I 've successfully used a blade-type coffee grinder to grind dried peppers into flakes . A blender or food processor should also work , assuming you are handling larger quantities . I must confess puzzlement about what exactly a " mixer-grinder " is , even after consulting the link . I believe the appliance may not have an exact equivalent in Europe or the United States . However , if it is suitable for blending or grinding it should work fine for dried peppers . I should add that you ought to wear gloves when handling the peppers , and beware of the fumes from the dehydrator or oven , as they may be very pungent . In extreme causes , protective goggles may be a good idea .
Basically , a chutney is a kind of savoury jam . This is a very simplistic definition though . The main differences between jam and chutney are as follows : The preservation in jam is only by sugar . In chutney , vinegar and sugar are used together , so chutneys are not necessarily sweet . Jam is almost always made with fruit as the main ingredient . In chutney , fruit can be used , but so can vegetables . Also , chutneys tend to be a mix of more than one thing . For example , an apple chutney will have plenty of apples , but also swede and onion in it . Jams usually do not add other flavours to the fruit and sugar ( pectin is for texture ) . Chutneys are usually flavoured with several spices , as well as chili peppers , onions and garlic . In the Indian subcontinent , chutneys are served along with the meal in small amounts , as a condiment to add to the meal . They are usually eaten with the blander side/starter dishes like pakoras or samosas , rather than with the spicy and flavourful main dishes . In the rest of the former British Empire , and particularly in England , it is eaten on bread , with butter or cheese , in a similar way to jam or pickle . Note that what the English call pickle is also a sort of savoury jam , not pickled cucumbers like in America .
At its simplest , guacamole is just mashed avocado . Avocado is not particularly acidic on its own , so add whatever non-acidic ingredients you like . Consider cilantro , sour cream or whatever low or non-acid flavorings suit you . See : <URL> for more on acid and avocados .
Yes ! I just came across this , and it just so happens I could use an orange in a slaw I 'm making right now . <URL> Simply lop off the ends , make a small incision in the side and carefully open to reveal easy-to-eat orange segments . ( Or as I prefer to call it , an orange caterpillar . ) I did it with my orange , and I had never peeled an orange so quickly : Now if you just want to eat the orange , you can just pluck off the segments as you pop them into your mouth . If you roll the orange around a bit first , before you lop off the ends ( as in @Barry Staes ' answer ) , it should make it even easier and more pith-free . But what was really neat is that by prepping it that way , I had a pretty close approximation to supremes , supremely easily ! ( haha ) With two passes of the knife and 5 seconds of picking at it , this is close enough for my slaw . Just flatten the " caterpillar " as much as you can with one hand , and with one slice ( or two ) , cut between the peel and the segments . I just picked away most of the remaining connective " stuff " and membranes with the knife and my fingers at this point , but a pair of kitchen shears would make even quicker work out of it . It 's not absolutely perfect , the traditional method of supreming <URL> would be the way to go if you 're gunning for a Michelin Star , but this is fine for more casual applications . With the practice of a couple more oranges , I think I could go from an intact orange to " cheater " supremed segments in less than a minute ( and without getting my hands sticky ! ) Pretty cool . BTW , there is a pretty neat animated GIF on the linked page that will make it all clear if the pictures do n't . EDIT : It works even better with grapefruit ! Open the grapefruit just enough to use a pair of kitchen shears to cut away the the connective membrane from the " points " of the segments ( what would be at the center of intact fruit ) . While you 're at it , remove any seeds . Be careful when you roll out the " caterpillar " to separate every segment and to put pressure evenly on all parts of the peel . The peel is a bit more prone to tearing than orange peel . Since the membranes between the segments are more like leather and less fragile than the membranes on orange segments , they are very easy to pluck away . This makes the supremed segments perfect . This gives better results even than the traditional method of supreming !
Sure , just roast them in a pan with oil for few seconds , not long enough to darken , and remove the nuts . As soon as you remove the cashews from oil they are sticky , then you need to sprinkle salt on it . Do n't add much -- add slightly , checking the taste , and then mix according to the taste you require .
Poke them with a fork in a few places . This will let the steam out in a controlled manner and prevent bursting . or , even better , skip the microwave and boil them in a pan over the stove .
If you 've found a very old recipe that calls for scalding for food safety reasons , then yes , it is probably unnecessary . However , there are places where it is called for . In particular , when making Béchamel ( which is made by combining milk and roux ) , it is important to scald or at least warm the milk , otherwise you can and most likely will end up with lumps . The reason to actually scald as oppose to simply warming the milk tends to be one of cooking time ; the hotter the milk is , the less time you have to spend whisking . In general , any recipe that calls for milk and needs to thicken tends to benefit from scalding for the latter reason - it just takes less time to thicken that way .
If you have a recipe that already produces a dense fudgy brownie and you 're looking to do it without oil , you 're just out of luck . If you 're looking to produce a dense fudgy brownie and wondered if , while you were at it , you might cut back on the oil ... NO , but here are some suggestions for making a cakey brownie more dense and " fudgey " : Follow Tim 's advice above on using butter instead of oil . It 's not doing anything as far as calories but it will produce better flavor vs. a neutral oil . However , particularly if you 're planning to put nuts in them , you could replace a portion of the vegetable oil with walnut or hazelnut oil for enhanced nutty flavor . Replace half of the whole eggs with egg yolks . Cakiness in brownies is partly due to the use of whole eggs . Egg whites have a drying effect on baked goods . In converting a brownie recipe I did , I used 2 egg yolks for each whole egg . Replace part of the granulated sugar with corn syrup . They hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture and retain it ) of the corn syrup will create a more dense moist result . I think I replaced about half the sugar with corn syrup . The added moisture of the corn syrup will help to off-set the loss of moisture from removing the egg whites . Method/Technique : Heat chocolate , butter , cocoa powder over a hot water bath until chocolate is melted . Stir to blend to a smooth consistency . Set aside to cool slightly . Beat egg yolks/whole egg with sugar and corn syrup until thick , light in color , and mixture forms a " ribbon " . Combine dry ingredients and make a well in the center . Temper chocolate into egg/sugar mixture . Mix to blend well . Add to dry ingredients and fold together just until moistened . Pour into greased pan and bake until set .
Recipes for preserving tend to be very specific . They 're calibrated to balance factors like pH and sugar content in the final recipes , and of course to minimize the risk of spoilage . In general , you should always follow the steps as written in your recipe . What I 've generally observed is that jam-type recipes do n't always include the final boiling step because the jam is already cooked ( edit : and because <URL> , the sugar content is generally high enough to be inhospitable to bacteria ) . That differs from canning fresh fruits and vegetables which are largely raw . The purpose of the boiling step here is to kill off pathogens before they get a chance to settle in and spoil the contents , as no matter how well you clean them , there are likely to be some spores , bacteria , etc. remaining . Even a tiny initial population can grow and spoil your preserves over the length of time they 'll be put away . So , initial sterilization is always required to clean the jars themselves . The second boil <URL> the contents . If you 've already done this as part of your preparation , as with a jam , then it most likely is n't required . It probably wo n't hurt , especially if you plan to put up your jams for an extended period of time ( i.e. months or years ) but you 'll have to weigh the convenience of skipping that step against the potential risk of spoilage . That said , let me state again for the record that if your specific recipe says to include the final boil , then there 's likely a very good reason , and you should follow that instruction .
The biggest concern with fish caught in the wild is the presence of parasites . You 'll have to look up which species of parasite are present in the species of fish that you wish to use , and treat it accordingly . Tapeworm is common in salmon , and several other varieties of fish have various parasites capable of infecting a human host . Most sites I 've seen suggest that you need to freeze the fish at -4 degrees Fahrenheit ( -20 Celcius ) or colder for 7 days or -31 Fahrenheit ( -35 Celcius ) for 15 hours to guarantee any parasites are dead . Many home freezers may have difficulty keeping temperatures this low . Also the freezing process , if done in a home freezer , has a good chance of ruining the taste and the texture of the meat . You may want to look into flash freezing methods to avoid this . Supposedly there are certain species of fish that do not have any parasites , or at least no parasites capable of infecting humans . You will want to do your own research on this to be certain . Beyond parasites bacteria are the other biggest concern . Make sure you put the fish into a cooler immediately , and freeze it as soon as you return home . Sources : <URL> <URL>
Have n't tried it but here : <URL> The link suggests the following technique : Vacuum seal pieces of watermelon ( if you do n't have one , just put it in a ziploc bag and take out as much as the air as possible ) Freeze it overnight Take it out and thaw
I would simply use whatever onions I had available ! Red onions have a milder flavour than yellow onions ( therefore red is usually preferred in salads ) and obviously different colour but the difference is still small enough to interchange with no problem . Unless , of course , you desire a particular colour in the soup or are particular about the soup having a strong or mild flavour . Leek would make it even milder and sweeter . If I 'd have to make a choice I would use yellow onions and spare the red ones for raw/decorative use .
end question
start question
How firm a bite should Ptitim ( pearl couscous ) have ?
I 'm used ( since childhood ) to eat ptitim that are only a little firmer than al dente . I 've never had 5mm ones , though .
If you wrap the fish ( or any meat you 're freezing ) with a layer of plastic wrap and a layer of aluminum foil , it will keep out air out and moisture in as much as possible without vacuum sealing . Make sure you wrap with plastic wrap first , then aluminum foil . The taste of aluminum can leech into the food and supposedly there are health risks associated with aluminum/meat contact as well , though I have n't heavily researched them . Better safe than sorry , though . Then I also recommend using a straw to suck out as much air as possible , as chris suggests . <URL> has some great guidelines on freezing meat and minimizing freezer burn . While it only calls out meat and poultry , I use the same methods for fish with great success .
Do you weigh your flour ? If not , that is the one change that you can make that will make this problem go away . Most of baking , particularly at the commercial level , is based on ratios by weight . While there will be some minor differences in the amount of moisture in 10 ounces of flour based on the humidity , how much flour packs into a cup can vary a lot on humidity , how much you 've fluffed or sifted the flour first , whether you scoop or sprinkle ... you get the idea . If you do n't weigh your flour when you bake , then there are lots of possible problems that could have occurred that may or may not have had anything to do with the humidity . The only other " seat of the pants " solution is to know your recipe so well that if you notice that there is a problem , you 'll catch it early . Third rise is a little late to be adding moisture , so you would have had to have noticed the problem at the beginning . Weighing your flour and water solves many baking problems and makes you look like a pro . Since you are weighing , then " knowing your recipe and adjusting on the fly " seems to be the only real answer . I checked around and even <URL> In the situation you described I might have added a bit of water at the third rise , then let it have another rise . Another thought is that , possibly , the air being so dry caused the tops of your rolls to dry out some , so they were n't flexible and you did n't get any oven spring . A spritz of warm water across the top of the rolls during final rise and , indeed , in the oven ( I do it with my sourdough loaves , for instance ) helps the bread skin to be loose enough to not inhibit the initial oven spring .
Heavier limes tend to be more juicy , but another important factor is the color and texture of the skin . Look for the brightest green ( sometimes with almost a yellow tinge ) and smoothest skin you can find . Many bumps or shriveled looking areas are good indications that there will be less juice . If that 's all that 's available in your store , though , just get more of them . If they have broken skin , I always avoid those . I 've gotten them home and found that even if there 's juice , at least the section near that break has gone dry and sometimes discolored , definitely a waste of my money and time . Another thing I 've found helpful , which can be done easily in the grocery store , is a smell-test . ( This also works with lemons , which to me are just as confusing . ) When very juicy , the skin has a scent , which may be subtle , but definitely different than those with none . It 's one sign of freshness , similar to knowing when to pick them from the tree . As Josh Caswell said in his excellent answer about pith , there 's nothing wrong with rolling them around in your hand in the store ; not enough to damage the lime of course , but enough to warm them up just a bit so they 'll release some juice and a nice smell . I do n't know where you 're from , but in Massachusetts , in the Northeastern United States , the produce department is often quite cold , so I do that with all my citrus choices . <URL> has some good pictures and information , and even mentions using them for cocktails ! <URL> gives the same basic information , with a video that I found helpful . To answer the question that was asked about the importance of skin thickness , it 's something I do n't generally think about when I shop , so I did some research . Most sites did n't mention it , especially with the common lime which is the most popular variety , but there is <URL> that does recommend choosing a thinner skinned fruit . They should feel firm and heavy for their size , because heavy limes will produce the most juice . Select limes with thin skins , avoiding the thicker skinned fruit , which is an indication of less flesh and juice . I know you did n't specifically ask , but just to add that if you have limes at home and you 're not getting the maximum effortless , free-flowing juice , you can microwave them for about 20 seconds . It helps release the juice , and works for other citrus fruits too . I 'd watch carefully , because I 've overheated my fruit doing that . It 's fine if I 'm going to use it for cooking or in my hot tea , but for cold drinks and things you then have to wait for it to cool off , which may be more effort than you need .
Legend has it that the inventor of the ring shaped donut with a hole came up with the idea because he was dissatisfied with the raw centre of regular donuts . <URL> . Having done quite a few doughnut experiments recently , it 's true that having shapes where the distance from the centre to the surface is smaller increases your chances of properly cooked doughnuts . So toroids make sense , but then so would thin cylinders . You can however , fry up donuts will no hole , that are cooked all the way through . Look at Berliners or jam-filled doughnuts .
Sauteing in butter is not really all that different from sauteing in any other oil : it just takes an awareness of the <URL> , and avoiding it . Consider investing in an IR thermometer that can tell you exactly the temperature of the pan ( with or without the oil ) so you can heat the pan to exactly the right point . For butter , that is about 350 ° F , which is not all that much lower than other oils - including EVOO , for example . One suggestion is to do as the French do ( who sauté in butter all the time ! ) and use <URL> , which removes the solids from the butter . It 's easy to do , and significantly raises the smoke point ( as those solids start smoking much earlier than the oil does ) . Clarified butter has a smoke point of 450 ° F , as high as peanut oil . You do n't even have to go to the extreme that the linked recipe does in clarifying ; simply spooning out the bits you can easily see will often be sufficient . You can clarify butter and then refrigerate or freeze it , if you want to do it in large batches . Second , use a pan that retains heat well - a heavier pan . That will allow you to cook at a lower temperature effectively . A thinner pan will have more hot spots , which lead to smoke sooner . Third , make sure you 're cooking the right amount of food in the right order . Do n't crowd the pan too much . I 've sauteed mushrooms and similar with no problem in butter ; steaming should n't be an issue if you have the right amount of food in the pan at once . If you overload it , though , you do end up cooking too slowly and unevenly , and steaming or just mushing your food . Fourth , salt is your friend when it comes to moisture . If you 're cooking something very moist , salt it before cooking it ( but after chopping it ) , give it a bit of time ( 5-10 minutes at least ) . This will let the salt remove some of the moisture , particularly from the outside . Then , wipe off the excess salt and the excess moisture with a cloth or paper towel before sauteing . ( Do n't give it a long time as eventually the moisture goes back in , and your food gets too salty . ) This works well for me with things like eggplant or zucchini - remove some moisture , then saute - as well as the thicker mushrooms ( like portobello or white mushrooms ) .
I own one , and have tried it for both those uses , but with mediocre results compared to other techniques . For crème brûlée , I get more even caramelization by placing the individual custards under a broiler . The only benefit I could appreciate from using the torch was that it was quicker , and I could monitor the caramelization more easily . ( The broiler technique is the one recommended in <URL> for the perfect crème brûlée . ) For peppers , the torch dries out and blackens the skin without really cooking the interior . Again I have had better results in a broiler/hot oven , or on a grill . The torch is most definitely fun , but so far I have n't found it to be necessary ; I 'll be interested , however , if someone else has found the perfect use ( s ) for a culinary torch .
Traditional fermented pickles were kept in barrels , but they 're not the kind that you buy in a big jar at Costco . Those pickles have been briefly cooked in a brine , and should be refrigerated after you open the jar . The salt and vinegar should keep them safe for a while , but they will likely go bad at room temperature before you finish eating the whole jar . As an anecdotal note , an office I used to work in kept one of these large jars of pickles around . After being open for a few years , they were clearly spoiled , and nobody would touch them .
I have just used the same mix and the same baking time , just using a mini muffin pan in place of a 9x9 or 9x13 pan . It worked quite well , although I suggest using the mini muffin liners in the pan , because cleaning all those individual spaces in the pan after brownie baking goes much smoother . I found that without the liners , the tiny brownies seemed to stick quite a bit , even in my good Pampered Chef pan .
From Googling Nutritional Claims Excellent : YES ! These terms are highly regulated in the United States . In the US , the FDA sets the <URL> for food products : " High , " " Rich In , " or " Excellent Source Of " - Contains 20 % or more of the DV per RACC . May be used on meals or main dishes to indicate that the product contains a food that meets the definition , but may not be used to describe the meal . " Good Source , " " Contains , " or " Provides " - 10 % -19 % of the DV per RACC . These terms may be used on meals or main dishes to indicate that the product contains a food that meets the definition but may not be used to describe the meal . " More , " " Fortified , " " Enriched , " " Added , " " Extra , " or " Plus " - 10 % or more of the DV per RACC than an appropriate reference food . May only be used for vitamins , minerals , protein , dietary fiber , and potassium . Note : DV = Daily Value , RACC = Reference Amount Customarily Consumed This is a really helpful page !
There are only three advantages that I can think of for a brasier : The lower sides result in faster evaporation when cooking on the stove top , as it does n't hold in the steam . It 's typically not as heavy for the same surface area . You should be able to fit two of them in your oven ( on different racks ) , which is unlikely for a dutch oven . Personally , I do n't have any of that shape pan in cast iron , and the ones that I do have , I do n't use for braising ; I use them for pilaf-type dishes or casseroles where you want a wide but shallow covered dish . I do n't know if a cast iron vessel would work as well for those dishes , as the thermal mass could make it more difficult to cook the middle sufficiently without overcooking the outside , unless is n't something that you can serve immediately after coming out of the oven .
South-east Asian cuisine often uses fish heads in stews or steamed . I remember seeing a recipe for fish head stew . Try this one : <URL>
I ca n't speak specifically to the shelf life of salami , especially considering all of the factors that come into play ( source , type , age , storage , etc. ) , but when dealing with meat in general , you should never eat it if it smells or tastes " off " . Smell is really the most reliable means of determining whether or not meat is still good - far more reliable than the use-by date . It 's unusual for meat to smell or taste sour as a result of foodborne bacteria ; sourness is more likely to be due to rancidity of the fats , which is of course equally dangerous , albeit in a different way . Oxidation is very likely if the meat was not properly wrapped and/or stored in an airtight container . Of course , many people have trouble telling the difference between spoilage due to rancidity and spoilage due to bacteria , and so what you 're perceiving as rancid ( sour ) may really be bacterial spoilage . Either way , if it tastes off , it 's spoiled ; do n't eat it .
I 'm used ( since childhood ) to eat ptitim that are only a little firmer than al dente . I 've never had 5mm ones , though .
A Southerner will probably tell you that there is no type of BBQ sauce to go with this type of pulled pork because it 's not actually real pulled pork ... or real BBQ . Authentic pulled pork is smoked , and that comes with a completely different set of pairings . This is technically just braised , shredded pork . Which is not meant as a criticism , mind you - I often make a similar recipe in the winter time using a dutch oven . But terminology is important here because there 's a huge difference in flavour between pulled pork and braised pork . I 'll note for the record that any kind of slow-cooking will make a pork shoulder fall right apart ; you do not need the root beer ( which is n't that acidic anyway , and <URL> ) to tenderize the pork . The heat and moisture do that all by themselves , although root beer is as good a choice as any if you 're braising . Now onto the flavouring . Because the braise , unlike smoke , only minimally flavours the meat , you 're going to need strong flavours from elsewhere . If you 're really trying to mimic an authentic Southern-style pulled pork then you need to incorporate the smoky flavour somehow , which means using a smoky BBQ sauce ( hickory is common ) or better yet , incorporate this flavour at the very beginning of the cooking process by applying a dry rub containing smoked paprika or including a small amount of liquid smoke in the braise . If you do use a rub then the other flavours are up to you - there are plenty of recipes out there - just do n't use salt in it because pork already has plenty . As with any braise , stick to aromatics like garlic/onion powder , various chili powders/peppers , cinnamon , etc. . Once you 've successfully incorporated the smoke ( or what passes for smoke in indoor cooking ) then a little sauce goes a long way . Definitely incorporate some of the leftover braising liquid so as not to waste those delicious drippings - I use about half of it but that 's with a much milder braise . Ketchup and dijon mustard in a 50/50 to 60/40 ratio is very simple and surprisingly effective when mixed in with the juices . If you still find this to be lacking punch , you can throw in some cider vinegar , which pairs well with both the pork shoulder and your root beer braise . I actually boil off the pan ( after reserving some braising liquid ) and use cider vinegar as a deglazer for the fond , but since you 're using a crock pot ( or equivalent ) , you probably wo n't have much/any fond and this would require an extra vessel , so ... just throw a splash or two into the finished sauce , and reduce if that makes it a bit watery . Worcestershire sauce is also a good way to punch up any homemade sauce , and if it starts to get too intense or tangy from either that or the vinegar , tone it down with some brown sugar or molasses if you have any . If you 're dead-set on following the recipe to the letter , then , as above , I think I 'd choose a hickory or mesquite sauce , something smoky and not overly thick . Some of the better brands/products will actually include a small amount of alcohol , like whisky or bourbon . Almost all will contain onion , garlic , paprika , sugar , molasses , and vinegar ( often cider vinegar , as above ) - not surprisingly , exactly the same kinds of ingredients as I 'm suggesting in the dry rub and homemade sauce .
Paneer can be used as is . Sometimes it is fried to extend shelf life . Cooks will also sometimes fry paneer until it is slightly brown and then put the fried cubes of paneer in hot water for a few minutes . This makes paneer very soft . If you do cook paneer , it will not melt , like most other cheese varieties , because it 's an acid-set cheese .
easiest way is to mix it with the sauce and heat both up together . Usually I 'd do this in a pan , but you could use a microwave . If you have to heat the pasta up on its own , what I usually do is do it in a pan and add a little boiling water , just a couple of tablespoons , enough to stop it sticking , and keep stirring until its warmed through . If it starts to stick add a little more water . You could do this in a microwave I 'd bet , but I do n't have one .
In the normal cooking time of a quiche ( 20 to 30 minutes ) , the crust does n't really get soggy from the filling , even if it is quite liquid , as is expected for quiche Lorraine . So , you can without problem cook your quiche without first blind-baking the crust . The difference will be in the crispness of the crust : if you try to get it crispy , you should prebake , if you do n't mind it being rather , well , " plain " , you do n't . The only real reason for me to blind-bake a crust is when you put something on it that wo n't be cooked ( tartelettes ) , that will only get grilled or that will be baked less that it would require to bake the crust ( meringue tart ) . Most of these examples are fruit tarts , however .
Very , very few pizzas are made with butter . There is no way to make a universal statement , but butter is a rare . Olive oil would be more likely . Many pizza doughs are fat-free , including the traditional pizza di napoli ; New York style generally contains olive oil . It is rare for any traditional toppings to contain butter . Some individual cooks might saute vegetables in butter , but even then , olive oil more common . As for particular restaurant chains , you would need to check their nutrition information sites . Note : as Derobert points out , some deep dish Chicago style pizzas may contain butter in the crust .
Dump pearl onions ( with skin ) into boiling water ( on high heat ) Bring water back to boil After 1-2 mins , take the onions out , and dump them in cold water ( or ice bath ) After 1-2 mins , take the onions out of cold water Take an onion , hold it between your index finger and thumb , and squeeze . The onion will pop right out of the skin . Repeat this step for each onion . Hope you find this useful ...
end question
start question
How can I " cheat " on dough maturation ?
The easiest method , and most common in a commercial setting , would be to add a small amount of yeast in addition to the sourdough starter . You will probably have to reformulate a bit , as the dough will mature faster leaving the starter less time to develop flavor . This is usually overcome by also increasing the proportion of starter ( and adjusting the final dough 's hydration based on the hydration of your starter ) . For instance , if your original recipe included 30 % starter ( in baker 's math ) , the faster version might have 40 % starter and .5 % yeast . If you use a liquid starter , you may then cut the water by 5 % or so , and if you use a solid starter no further adjustment may be needed .
I 've never heard of anyone trying this . I think its very unlikely though . Those gas deflectors are actually specially designed to pull in the appropriate amount of atmospheric air for a proper flame . This is why the flame you see is so blue and has very little orange . I 'd look into seeing if there is some way to get a replacement deflector that is better suited for wok cooking . You could also do what Alton Brown does and use the bottom half of a turkey deep fryer , outside preferably , and not over any pipes or electrical wiring or gravel .
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
Melting carob is a bit different from chocolate . The sugar crystal formation is not the same for tempering chocolate . One suggestion is to add paramount crystals ( which is a combination of palm kernel oil and soy lecithin ) to help start/control the process . I would also recommend not keeping the double boiler actually on the double boiler for the entire time . Heat it up until some of the carob melts . Remove from heat and stir . Add it back to the heat and continue removing to stir as each bit melts a little more . It takes longer but it allows you to control the heating and crystallization process . End the end , you should have a smoother and more even end result .
Thin cut meat will curl if there is an outside perimeter of gristle or silverskin ( which there usually is ) . Those things shrink faster than the meat , causing the curling . Take a pair of kitchen shears or a sharp knife and make tiny cuts ( it should n't take more than 1/4 inch ) every inch or so around the perimeter of the steak , just into the meat itself . That should solve the problem .
I would suggest not roasting a chicken at such a low heat for so long . Here is a response to a similar question on another cooking forum : A few days ago I printed out a recipe from peacefulnightdove " BEST Slow-Roasted Chicken " . It sounded wonderful but was to be roasted at 250 F ( 126 C ) degrees for 5 hours . That sounded like a low temperature to me , so I emailed the County Nutritionist and Health Agent where I lived . Here is her reply : Good for you JoAnn to be suspicious ! That is definitely outside the USDA guidelines , and yes bacteria may well be growing for quite a while in there . Poultry especially should not be done at less than 325 degrees . You could use the same spices and onions , increase the temp to 325 and decrease the time . Figure about 20 min per pound for the time . The safest way is to use a meat thermometer , final temp in the thigh should be 180 degrees . <URL> I would also suggest using a crockpot .
Traditional dough will not freeze well . You have to par-bake it . In the US , the & ldquo ; freshly baked & rdquo ; bread sold in most supermarkets is par-baked dough . This is risen dough , which is then baked for 70 to 80 % of the usual baking time , cooled , frozen , and shipped to the supermarket , where it is baked again until golden . You could do the same . A par-baked baugette is a bit denser than a traditional one . Freezing the dough before baking it kills most of the yeast preventing it from working during the first stages of baking .
These products are called thickeners . Gum Arabic is often used for this as well as karageenan , xanthan gum , sometimes corn starch or potato starch . You have to experiment with the different thickeners so you get the consistency you want .
Use a pressure cooker . Try for example this recipe : <URL> where dried hominy is cooked in a pressure cooker .
I can honestly say I 've done this on many occasions . Especially for pizza dough , I defrost in the fridge for 24 hours in a cling filmed bowl which allows it to prove slowly through the day . Never once had an issue with it .
The chemical responsible for " the burn " is Capsaicin . The main reason you and everyone else has trouble with the lingering burning sensation is that it 's not water soluble ( which means it does n't dissolve in water ) . So , flooding your mouth with water-based liquids does n't loosen up those Capsaicin molecules on your tongue and throat . Like @Iuls says , the most common and effective relief comes from full-fat milk or cream . That 's because , while Capsaicin is n't able to be dissolved by water , it is fat soluble . It 's also why more than a few people have been upset that the " milk solution " did n't work , when they tried it with skim milk . If you 're looking for a more " fun " solution , it 's worth noting that Capsaicin is also alcohol soluble , which might explain all of that tequila and beer they sell at Mexican restaurants .
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
Bananas are imported unripe and then ripened in the country of sale . This ripening is achieved by forcing ethylene gas through the bananas in special pressurised rooms . Bananas naturally produce ethylene as they ripen , so you could just put them in a sealable plastic bag to contain that gas . Tomatoes also produce ethylene , so you could pop a couple of those in as well , but be aware that they 'll also ripen faster too .
Picking a tomato which is individually ugly is n't going to help you . It 's still the same variety and grown , stored and shipped under the same conditions as the other tomatoes in the pile . Try looking for a store ( farmers ' and ethnic markets are good for this ) which has a whole bin of ugly tomatoes ; those are a different variety and/or handled differently . Heck , here in California , there 's even a hybrid brand which is marketed under the name " Uglyripe " , which is quite tasty . Also , just " ugly " is n't a sufficient description . What you 're looking for is irregularities in color , shape and size . Bruising , blemishes , wormholes and brown streaks do n't indicate a better-tasting tomato , just one which has been abused .
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
Worcestershire sauce is fairly sweet , it 's the sugar that 's blackening . There 's nothing you can do about it - if you add it to your pan it 's going to char . The solution is not to put it in the pan , but put it on afterwards or mix it in with the meat before making patties . You 'll get a better result that way as well , you 're destroying the flavor of the worcestershire sauce by charring it in the pan like that .
In recipes , buttermilk brings liquid , some milk solids , some acid , and if it is not made from skim milk ( it is a cultured product ) , some fat . In a pinch , you can substitute approximately 1 cup milk with 1 tbl lemon juice or vinegar . For information on making your own cultured buttermilk , <URL> . It is made from milk and an active culture starter from commercial or previous buttermilk batches , much akin to making yogurt . Edit : As hinted in Fisher 's answer , for some applications , particularly quick breads and muffins , buttermilk can also be substituted one to one with yogurt or sour cream .
Yes , it is possible , and in fact usually results in better bread , because the yeast has more time to work and develop flavour . It depends on the recipe , but you should usually reduce the amount of yeast being used to prevent overproofing . You can keep most doughs for a couple of days in the fridge , depending again on the amount of yeast and how often the fridge is opened . Simply mix and knead your dough as normal , cover it tightly with plastic wrap over the bowl , then put it straight in the fridge . You will usually need to allow a couple of hours the next morning for the dough to ' wake up ' and finish a full proof , but if your dough has fully risen in the fridge ( ie it has grown 1.5-2 times ) you can go straight to shaping .
A sausage stuffer , perhaps ? Your standard food mill attachment type more typically seen in a home kitchen : <URL> Unless you 're seeing some product I 've never met , I would not call that stuff " rolled in tubes " - I 'd call it a tube ( or log ) of dough , and I expect the filling process is VERY like a ( large , automated ) sausage stuffer , and involves no rolling at all . <URL> In making refrigerator cookies , one simply makes a log out of the dough , wraps it , and places it in the fridge to harden before slicing . The dough is not liquid to start with , so it does not pour , and can be shaped without a form . If your " dough " " pours " I 'm dubious about your recipe or method .
end question
start question
Why is there no sweet ( as in ' with sugar ' ) butter ?
Butter traditionally has salt in it as a preservative , mainly to stop bacterial growth on the residual whey , and to slow fat rancidity Modern butter has a much lower amount of salt than is required for shelf storage in the pre-electric era . Now we have refrigerators , salt is not required at such a high level Butter with no salt has nearly half of the shelf life of modern salted butter Processed sugar is a modern ingredient , and therefore there is no culture in having it in butter . Sweet yoghurt and milk are all " new " inventions Using salt as a preservative is as old as recorded history . Many cultures used salt to preserve fruits , as well as meats and vegetables
The only potential reasons not to use spray oil to help handle dough are : There is a small amount of lecithin in most spray oils The oil may not be of the highest quality , and thus not have the best taste The propellants may leave an off-taste You are using it in such tiny quantities , however , that I do n't think either of these are a practical concern , except possibly in the face of an extreme soy allergy ( if the lecithin is from soy ) .
This depends on what you mean by a gelatin " substitute " . What you have to understand is that while most hydrocolloids have gelling and stabilizing properties , they are not simply interchangeable . You ca n't substitute one of them 1-for-1 where you need gelatin and expect everything to just work . A great place to start would be the <URL> which , despite its name , is almost more of a cookbook , because it has detailed information on the properties of each hydrocolloid . <URL> is actually a stronger gelling agent than gelatin in the sense of having to use less of it to get the same strength , but you need to use it properly . The most important property of agar is that unlike gelatin , which gives hydration at temperatures as low as 50 ° C , agar requires a temperature of 90 ° C . In other words , you need to heat the water all the way to a rapid boil before the agar will actually " activate " . A light simmer is not enough . The other notable property of agar is syneresis , which is the loss of moisture over time . Agar sets extremely fast compared to gelatin and above room temperature , but unless you combine it with a small amount of <URL> , it will actually dry out . Otherwise , though , you can absolutely , definitely substitute agar-agar for gelatin if you actually get pure agar ( I made the mistake of buying the " dessert agar " once , which is not the same thing ) and hydrate/set it properly . In fact , the biggest concern with using agar as a substitute for gelatin is that you might end up with something too stiff , since gelatin produces a much softer gel . Perhaps the closest hydrocolloid to gelatin in terms of its properties is iota type carrageenan . Here 's a side-by-side comparison of the most important characteristics ( this is all taken from the HRC ) : Property | Gelatin | Carrageenan | Agar ------------------ + ----------- + ------------- + --------- <URL> | Yes | Yes | Yes Strength | Soft | Soft | Hard Elasticity | Elastic | Elastic | Brittle <URL> | No | Yes | No Hydration | 50 ° C | 70 ° C | 90 ° C Setting Temp . | 15 ° C | 40-70 ° C | 35-45 ° C Setting Speed | Slow | Fast | Fast Melting Temp . | 25-40 ° C | 45-80 ° C * | 80-90 ° C Viscosity | Low | Medium | Low Gelling Conc . | 0.6-1 .7 % | 1.0-1 .5 % | 0.2 % Syneresis | No | No | Yes You should be able to see by this how much closer carrageenan is to gelatin ; trouble is , it 's difficult to find , and you have to get the right kind ( the kappa type and other types have very different properties ) . There 's actually an even better type of carrageenan to use a gelatin substitute , if you can find it : It 's called <URL> and it 's specifically designed to be a gelatin replacement . I 'd like to also note for the record that the answer in your <URL> is not really appropriate for gelatin desserts that need to hold their shape . Xanthan gum is a fantastic and versatile hydrocolloid but ( to the best of my knowledge ) it does not " set " the way that gelatin , agar , or carrageenan do . It 's more of a thickener/emulsifier/stabilizer , at its highest concentrations being used to produce foams ( but not gels ) . It 's often used to stabilize other gels/foams but I 've never heard of it being used to create a gel on its own . Guar gum is also largely just a thickener , that you could use a stabler replacement for corn starch or arrowroot , which is also mentioned in that answer . None of these are appropriate at all for gels ( desserts ) , they are only useful as thickeners .
Butter can go bad . The oils will go rancid if exposed to too much light and heat for too long . This accelerates the process of oxidation , which happens even if you keep the butter in the fridge . Even in the fridge your butter will eventually go bad . Personally I follow the dates on all packages . I do so with an awareness that they usually tend to be conservative , which keeps me comfortable . Rancid butter in a taste test wo n't kill you , though . It 'll just taste bad . So you should be able to taste this butter to see if it is bad . While I recommend following the dates on packaging , here are signs that your butter has actually gone bad : discoloration melting ( which will happen outside of the fridge , you probably would n't see it ) sour smell sour and unusual taste
Just an idea ... I 've had problems making foam because of hard/basic tap water ( a lot of chalk in the water ) - making frape though , not garlic foam :) Foam will more easily form in soft water as you can easily test with a piece of soap . If you have hard tap water you could try using boiled water ( some of the chalk in the water will react and leave a residue on the bottom of the pot ) or bottled water with pH 7 ( neutral ) . Another idea would be to add just enough acid for neutralisation but I imagine that could be a bit tricky and you 'd risk the milk curdling so I would n't recommend it .
I 've done this before , and you wo n't get exactly the same cookie as you got before . Confectioner 's sugar is a total bomb . Do n't bother . Dark brown sugar makes darker cookies , with a chewier texture , which keeps longer . This is n't always a bad thing . Several of my cookie recipes I thought were a bit dry were saved by DBS . It added a nice depth to the flavor , as well .
There is lots of use for high temperatures . Especially pizza is the first thing that comes to mind ; there is no home oven which can get to the proper temperatures for a Neapoletana ( which are above 500 Celsius ) , but more is always better . Of course , the salesman will tell you what you need to hear to buy his product , do n't listen to him . This still does n't mean that you should only buy the oven with the highest max temperature ; there are badly built ovens which claim to reach 300 Celsius but ca n't actually do it , in this case you are probably better off with a better quality oven with a lower nominal maximum temperature . It is probably best to compare reviews made by independent test organizations .
Pros : Higher smoking point . Regular butter 's smoking point is 325-375F while clarified butter is around 485F . But it can still smoke and burn ! However the higher smoking point means it 'll be much more applicable in terms of sauteing food without worrying about burning the butter . 100 % fat . Often times its hard to calculate the exact replacements in baking when you want to replace a fat with butter because regular butter is n't 100 % fat . Using regular butter , you would need to factor in how much extra water you are introducing into the recipe . Longer shelf life . Without the water and milk solids , the shelf life of the clarified butter will be much longer . Can even be stored without refrigeration . Cons : Less buttery flavor . The milk solids that you are removing makes up a lot of butter 's flavor . By removing this , you are removing flavor .
The vitamin loss is due primarily to the puree'ing . The viramin A in mangoes comes from beta-carotene , and beta-carotene breaks down easily due to oxidation . On a similar note , I 've seen recommendations that carrots ( another good source of beta-carotene ) not be chopped into small pieces before canning to preserve their vitamin content . Lots of vitamins are also destroyed by the heat of canning , but beta-carotene is not as susceptible to this problem because it is fat soluble .
Castor ( caster ) sugar is known as superfine , or bar sugar in the US . It 's not the same as powdered sugar which is even finer , has been mechanically pulverized , and is often mixed with starch to prevent clumping . According to <URL> you can make it with regular granulated sugar in your food processor for two minutes , but let the sugar dust settle before opening . See Also : <URL>
It 's to prevent caking . See , for example , <URL> : It is not recommended to substitute confectioners sugar for granulated sugar . Since confectioners sugar has a much finer texture , and it contains a small percentage of cornstarch to prevent caking , substituting can give you unexpected results . Many shredded cheeses include corn starch for the same reason .
Transfer of heat . First you need a hot pan ( sprinkle some drops of water on the pan , it should sizzle ) . Then you add a drop of oil and swirl it around . When the oil forms a striated pattern , it 's hot . Then you put the meat in . The hot oil helps to transfer heat from the bottom of the pan to the meat . You only need a spoonful of oil .
They are <URL> ( I do n't know what research has actually been done ) to prevent the build-up of limescale .
Kudos to your wife for giving it another shot ! Let me start with what I feel is the most important part of my answer : find a good fish monger and make friends . If the supermarket is the best you can find , so be it , but learn the name of the person behind the counter , ask about the fish , be interested . Ask what 's just in , ask what 's fresh . If the fish is frozen at sea , ask if you can get some from the freezer instead of the stock in the case that 's been thawed and sitting all day . Ask to touch and smell the fish . Look at the stock - do the whole fish have clear eyes ? Does it smell like a dumpster ? Getting the freshest , best fish will help you and your wife enjoy it more . <URL> on shopping for fish . Now , on to your bullet points . Fish should never smell or taste " fishy " . Fishy smelling fish is a sign of bad fish . I find that a lot of my friends who say they do n't like fish have had experiences with poorly handled or old fish . Fish must be fresh ( or frozen at sea and handled properly afterward ) to be good . I 've stopped ordering fish in restaurants unless it specializes in fish ( and I do n't mean Red Lobster ) or is well known for their freshness . That said , some fish is certainly more strongly flavored than others . I <URL> here with a few varieties of mildly flavored fish . I do agree that flaky , white-fleshed fish is generally the mildest . Flatfish , like sole or flounder tend to be consistently mild . Tilapia has become an extremely popular fish lately . However if you do find a good fish monger , talk to him about it and you should be able to find plenty of interesting venues : monkfish has been called the poor man 's lobster , and I had some arctic char the other night that knocked my socks off . As for why white fish tends to be less strongly flavored than meatier fishes , I ca n't really answer authoritatively . My guess would be that meatier fishes tend to be more oily and fatty , which equals more/stronger flavor .
Fruits that are high in pectin are not necessarily sour and sour fruits are not necessarily high in pectin . However , pectin is typically found in high concentrations in firm fleshed fruit such as apples and in the skins of citrus . Unripe fruit has even more than the ripe . So - I can see why you would come to that conclusion . It is easy enough to <URL> <URL> of pectin levels in various fruits . As you may notice many of these charts list not only fruits high in pectin but those high in acid . This is because acid is necessary to make pectin gel as it removes a charge on the pectin molecules that prevents them from tangling with each other . Low acid fruits , even if they are high in pectin , need extra acid for this reason . If you are feeling all scientific about it , you can <URL> . There is no danger in experimenting . At least no danger of illness . You might end up with grainy jam if the pectin is too high or syrup if it is too low but it will all taste great .
I would not recommend doing so . The technique you describe is known as <URL> , which as you might guess from the name is a <URL> in the French culinary tradition . It translates literally to " mount with butter " and is used to provide a rich , velvety mouthfeel to both white and brown sauces . By contrast , <URL> sauce originates in Japanese cuisine , which is a whole different tradition . Like Chinese cuisine and other east Asian cooking , Japanese cuisine does n't make use of much dairy , <URL> . Teriyaki sauce is generally a <URL> that gets its richness from a high proportion of sugar and can be thickened with cornstarch ( as seen in <URL> ) . You could try mounting a teriyaki sauce with butter , but my suspicion is that you might cause some of the sugar in the glaze to seize and crystallize by introducing cold butter ( as typically recommended when mounting ) and it would not be common in the culinary tradition that teriyaki comes to us from . So you can skip this step without causing any harm to your sauce or offense to any French or Japanese bystanders .
Nope . For peanut butter cookies it 's just a matter of taste , and it 's 1:1 .
Play it safe . It has been said : You probably will be ok , but the safer method is just to cook it the night before and refrigerate it . Toss the whole thing in an insulated lunch container , and you should have no problems . Even if the temperature creeps up into the danger zone , it should n't be there more than an hour or two before lunch time , and should still be cool enough not to cause an issue . -- <URL> <URL> I happen to disagree with this advice , personally . While it may be OK , is this something worth trying to find out ? Here is an excerpt from an <URL> Growth rates of pathogens are highly temperature dependent . Ordinarily , pathogenic bacteria growth is relatively slow at temperatures below 70 ° F ( 21.1 ° C ) . In most cases , growth is very slow below 50 ° F ( 10 ° C ) , and 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) is below the minimum growth temperature of most pathogenic bacteria , although there are some exceptions . On the other hand , pathogenic bacteria grow relatively fast at temperatures above 70 ° F ( 21.1 ° C ) . Think of a real-world example , say a soda can . You get the can out of the machine at a temperature around 35 ° F-40 ° C , which is refrigeration temperature . You set it naked ( i.e. , no " can cushy " ) on a table and just leave it there . Within 1-1 .5 hours or so , it will be very close to room temperature , which on average is about 70 ° F to 73 ° F. That 's when your fish will begin growing bacteria more rapidly , which it would continue to do until you are ready to eat it . TL ; DR At the very least put and ice pack or other method of absorbing heat inside your lunchbox . Always play it safe when it comes to pathogens .
The reason it tastes sweet is the presence of sugar , ie because it is sweet . Cinnamon is thin tree bark , and it is not uncommon for tree bark , or the layer near the bark to be sweet because of sap . Birch is another example of a tree that is sweet , you can suck on a peeled birch branch for the same reasons as stated in your question .
It 's semantic nitpicking . Tofu is defined as soy milk , curdled and pressed . Some people who do n't care about oriental culinary tradition think of tofu as any non-dairy milk that is curdled and pressed into a curd . Technically your almond tofu would be almond milk curd or some such . In reality your coworker is being pedantic and I would accept the term " almond tofu " as a perfectly understandable , non oriental , colloquialism .
end question
start question
Can pasteurized milk turn into yogurt by itself ?
What you got is more properly characterized as buttermilk ( in the current usage of the term ) than yogurt . Pasteurization does not sterilize milk , and it can have been any kind of bacteria which can survive in milk . The process was the same as in any other cultured dairy : bacteria started multiplying , producing lactic acid which curdled and soured the milk . The harsher the pasteurization , the less chance that you happened to have an abundance of a benign culture . You could have gotten something dangerous , or harmless-but-gross . Traditional buttermilk making by leaving raw milk unseeded with any culture out and hoping that it harbors no baddies is also unsafe by today 's standards . So , if you want to produce buttermilk or yogurt , you are much better off starting with a culture . A few spoonfulls of prepared yogurt or buttermilk should work ( unless their culture was killed ) , but for best results , you should match culture and fermentation temperature .
I have the brand of juicer ( Champion ) mentioned by the OP in comments . It 's a rather unusual design that is n't used by most other companies . They are somewhat notorious for producing a lot of foam . I bought it perhaps 15 years ago , but rarely use it for this reason . ( It still has other uses other than juicing . ) Anyhow , the solution I found to this problem was simply to strain the juice through a fine-mesh sieve . It wo n't go quickly and will get clogged with the pulp , so you 'll need to a take a spoon or something and stir it around to force the juice through . It takes a long time , but it 's effective because the bubbles dissipate when they go through the sieve . Given the construction of these types of juicers , I would generally just place a bowl underneath and a large sieve in the bowl to catch the juice coming out . After finishing juicing , you can turn off the machine and then spend 5 minutes stirring and straining to get rid of the foam . I have seen others on the internet mention success using a French press to do a similar straining action to destroy the foam . I tried it once but it did n't seem to work as well ( perhaps the stirring action within the sieve also assists with the foam ) . Nevertheless , it still made an improvement .
<URL> has a vast amount of information on beer styles . To answer your specific question , an ale is top-fermenting whereas a lager is bottom-fermenting . Lagers are generally fermented at lower temperatures than ales . I believe that lambics would constitute a third category , since they are traditionally fermented by wild yeasts , but opinion may vary on this , I do n't know . There are dozens of styles of ales and lagers and a few different lambics , but the method of fermentation is the main distinguishing characteristic between the three types .
Cinnamaldehyde , the compound that gives cinnamon its flavor , is known to cause inflammation in mucous membranes ( http://cameochemicals.noaa.gov/chemical/20036 ) . It 's also mildly water soluble . So , when you made your coffee it was probably diluted enough that it did n't cause a problem . As it sat out , it probably fell out of the solution and settled in the bottom of your cup in a more concentrated form .
No , milk in and of itself does not prevent cakes from rising . There is noting in milk that changes the action of baking powder or baking soda . Just yesterday , for example , I made chocolate muffins with 1/2 cup of milk , chemically leavened , and they rose beautifully . There has to be some other factor involved , but you would need to add much more detail to your question in order to have a chance at identifying it .
You can substitute one to one . Many brands of " light sour cream " ( Which is an oxymoron . Cream without the cream ? ) have a lot of gums and starches to stabilize the liquid as the fat would have done . Brands that do n't have gums dilute the fat with skim milk and are basically just yogurt anyway . Regular yogurt is fragile . It is a delicate mesh of proteins filled with water . When it is blended the water washes out . However , greek yogurt has already had this done ! So there is less water and it stays creamy and loses relatively little extra liquid even when blended .
This often happens when the tomatoes used are not fully mature . Although apparently are completely red , the parties less red lighten the sauce . Alternatively , depends on the quality of tomatoes . The Native Americans tomatoes were yellow ( hence the Italian name " golden apple " = " pomo d'oro " = " pomodoro " ) . Through the selections have become red . But remaining mixed colors , which are " not red " but " reddish " . Or yellow - orange . In the United States , the orange tomatoes are sold seasonally in the markets of agricultural producers : it is " heirloom tomatoes " or " tomatoes tradition " ( heirloom tomatoes ) , ie those that were cultivated before 1800 and which for centuries delighted the palates of our ancestors . The study conducted by the chemist Betty J. Burry and biologist Betty K. Ishida has shown that orange tomatoes contain more lycopene ( an important antioxidant molecule ) of the common red tomatoes . The difference is due to the chemical form of lycopene in red tomatoes that occurs in the trans form while in the orange tomatoes in tetra-cis form . Research conducted in California and in Ohio ( USA ) have shown that the form of the tetra-cis lycopene is more efficiently absorbed by the body compared to the trans form . The research group has also assessed the oxidative damage : lycopene and other antioxidant molecules , in fact , may protect both the cells and the essential fatty acids from oxidation . Using a procedure known as " TBARS assay " the researchers noted that oxidative damage is decreased by consuming tomato sauce and tomato sauce red orange , but the damage reduction was greater in the diet that included the consumption of orange tomatoes . ( * ) <URL> Data di pubblicazione : 05/07/2012 Autore : Emanuela Fontana Copyright : www.freshplaza.it Personally I can say that in the diets of very young children less red tomatoes ( fresh , peeled and seeded ) are preferred , because they are more digestible and light . PS A very prolonged cooking of the sauce , on the contrary , gives a very dark and indigestible sauce ( tomato paste ) which is used more as a seasoning for cooking of regional recipes . Is never used on pasta , as the taste is altered and too strong . EDIT Yes it happens very often , and we all start with deep red tomatoes , san marzano and so on . But often the salsa comes oranges . <URL> that it comes from blending tomatoes after mixing with oil . But I never put so much oil to think that it could depend by oil . And it happens to me too . And the other persons disagree too . Everyone does buy san marzano tomatoes ( or similar ) , very mature and red . But when you cut them , inside they can be hard and a bit pale , not really red . And flavonoid and lycopene are into any tomato , just in different or more or less visible quantity . ( flavonoyd becomes from latin : flavus = yellow or blond / leukos is from greek = white ) . To me , since the original DNA is yellow , it could be that some genetic trait has remained , not limited to only one quality but in general the whole botanical species , and sometimes emerges . The major dietary source of lycopene is represented by the tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) from which it takes its name , and its derivatives , in which represents 60 % of the total content in carotenoids . The lycopene content is influenced by the level of maturation of the tomato , has been calculated that in fact red and ripe tomatoes are present 50 mg / kg of lycopene . But of course , i can wrong . <URL> / <URL> <URL> " The date of his arrival in Europe in 1540 when the Spaniard Hernán Cortés returned to his homeland and brought the specimens , but its cultivation and propagation waited until the second half of the seventeenth century . Arrives in Italy in 1596 but only later , finding favorable climatic conditions in the south of the country , you have the color change of its color from the original and distinctive gold color , which gave its name to the plant , the current red , thanks to selections and subsequent grafts . " EDIT II @ MandoMando Yes , I agree . What you say agrees with my experience . I must say that it is false that " many often " happens , it just happens sometimes . Normally remain red . But I never use electrical equipment , only hand devices , like these : The first is precisely for the tomato sauce . The second pass any cooked vegetables . But if you want , you can tray the ancient recipe , that I use only when I have guests and I want to offer some pasta with a fresh made sauce . You must blanch the tomatoes in boiling water until the skin breaks down ( usually 20-30 seconds ) . Then remove the tomatoes from the water and peel them right away , still intact and hot . This is the method used by our grandmothers who were canned . After removing the skin , you can put the whole tomatoes into the jars and sterilize them . Or you can make a sauce with olive oil , salt and herbs ( as I do ) or with other ingredients such as carrots , celery or whatever . I do not think that modern industries for storage of tomato sauce stil
I have that problem when I am impatient and do n't let the pasta dry out long enough before putting it on to boil . It is important to let the pasta dry even just in loose little heaps once sliced into noodles . It does n't have to get totally dry just dry enough that you ca n't squish the noodles back together into dough . Also you need to cook fresh pasta for a very short amount of time in a LOT of water , about 1.5 x as much water as you would use for dry , so that the noodles have less chance to run into each other . In fact I frequently do n't boil them at all separately but just toss them in the soup I am serving them with for for a two to three minutes before serving .
Yogurt curdles at high temperatures . If you curdle a big lump of yogurt , breaking it up well is hard , and it does n't taste too well . You want to end up with tiny particles evenly dispersed in the dish . So when you add it a spoon at a time , you can mix it really well before it has had time to curdle . An alternative method is to do it the other way round . You remove a spoonfull of the curry and dump it into the yogurt , then stir immediately . When it is completely absorbed , you add the next spoon . You continue until you have something like a 1:1 mix in the bowl , then dump it into the still cooking curry and stir . The second method requires less than 30 s between spoons , but is n't necessarily less work . ( You may have to prepare a separate bowl for the yogurt ) . However , it produces even smoother results . If you have a problematic yogurt ( low fat content , high clumping tendency ) , use the second method . Edit HenrikSöderlund 's comment makes me think that my explanation was n't clear enough , so here an addition . The yogurt will curdle a few seconds after it is dumped in the pot . The point is , you do n't lumps of curdled yogurt . A lump of curdled yogurt is grainy and sour and does n't mix well with liquid . Encountering a lump of curdled yogurt in your soup/curry unpleasant in a way similar to encountering a lump of undissolved baking powder in your cake . On the other hand , A tiny droplet of curdled yogurt is too small to feel as grainy , too small an amount of acid to give you an unpleasant sensation , and small enough to form a suspension with the " broth " . That 's why you have to break up the yogurt in droplets before it curdles , and this is only physically possible when you start out with a small amount like a single spoon . It is even more important to do that when adding to the dry-ish mixture described in the edit than when adding to a simmering broth . The broth is below 100 ° C , the curry base can be much hotter , causing the yogurt to curdle quicker . Also , a liquid will dissolve the yogurt easily and disperse it , but with the dry curry base , you have to rely on stirring only to reduce the yogurt to droplets .
Almond Milk for cow 's milk was a really common substitution in medieval recipes . A lot of medieval recipes used almond milk - almonds being a lot easier to store without spoiling and find reliably when a medieval cook needed some . Almond milk was a staple of the medieval kitchen . It was used in a wide variety of dishes as a substitute for milk or cream , especially on " fish days " , when the church placed restrictions on what foods could be eaten ( the most prominent of which were the days during lent ) . from <URL> In the Middle Ages , animal milk was , of course , not refrigerated , and fresh milk did not stay fresh for long . Most cooks simply did not use much milk as the short shelf-life of the product made it a difficult ingredient to depend upon ... Rather than animal milk , Medieval cooks turned to something they could depend upon , and that was the milky liquid produced by grinding almonds or walnuts . This liquid , high in natural fats , could be prepared fresh whenever needed in whatever quantities . It also could be made well ahead of time and stored with no danger of degeneration . Because of its high fat content , it , like animal milk , could be churned into butter , and because it was not animal milk , it could be used and consumed during Church designated meatless days . from <URL> Some dishes can not be made with this substitution , those that depend on the physical and chemical properties of milk - like cheese , or whipped cream . It would take a lot of processing and additives to make the almond milk mimic those products . However , both milks contain fats , proteins , and sugars in solution , and so behave similarly enough in the chemistry of cooking to make them easy substitutes . I will admit that while I cited medievalcookery.com and godecookery.com because the quotes were convenient , I posted my comment originally drawing from David Freedman and Elizabeth Cook 's " How to Milk an Almond , Stuff and Egg , and Armor a Turnip : A thousand years of recipes " which is very well researched and contains a number of period citations and recipes .
There are a variety of frozen desserts which are all related . The main difference between ice cream and frozen custard is the amount of eggs used to thicken the base mix . Philadelphia style ice cream is made from a base mix of milk and/or cream , sugar , and flavorings . French ( or simply plain ) ice cream is made from a base mix which is essentially a very thin custard or creme anglaise : milk and/or cream , sugar , and flavorings thickened with egg yolks or whole egg . The base mix is cooked to thicken , and then chilled prior to churning . Frozen custard is very similar to French style ice cream , but with a greater ratio of eggs or egg yolks to dairy or liquid in the mix . With this information , you can adapt nearly any custard recipe to be freezable as ice cream or frozen custard . My survey of frozen custard recipes indicates a ratio of eggs to dairy of about 5 egg yolks to three cups ( 700 mL ) dairy , or 6 whole eggs to 4 cups ( 1 L ) of dairy . To adapt any custard recipe for freezing , then : Adjust the ratio of egg yolks to dairy to no more than about 5 yolks per 3 cups dairy . You may also want to adjust the total yield to be based on no more than 3 cups dairy depending on the capacity of your ice cream maker . Many home ice cream makers have a 1 quart ( close to 1 L ) capacity , but you need to leave room for the air which will be incorporated as the mix is churned . I recommend not using whole eggs for frozen custards , as the yolks facilitate a better texture , and create the rich eggy custard flavor . Frozen desserts are served colder than custards normally are , so the flavors will be more muted . You may need to compensate by increasing the ratio of flavoring ingredients . This will be hard to judge until you have made the frozen custard/ice cream at least once . Cook the custard until it thickens on the stove top , per the normal custard method . Chill it rapidly for safety , and then hold it for at least 4 hours ( overnight is even better ) . While I can not explain the science , empirically , allowing the mix to mature lets the flavors meld and produces a better frozen dessert . Churn it into a frozen dessert according to the instructions of your particular ice cream maker . Note that you can even convert a custard recipe into a Philadelphia style ice cream by eliminating the eggs completely , and simply creating a dairy/sugar/flavoring mix . These still benefit from overnight maturation before churning .
No , sugar will never turn sour after long cooking , no matter how long you cook it . This must be some myth . If you take your sugar beyond caramel and into a burned stage , it can become acrid with a faintly sour taste . But this can not happen as long as there is any moisture in your food . The whole content of the pot will have to be a single black lump of charcoal before this occurs . It is not possible for the dissolved sugar in the soup to burn to this stage . Peter Taylor 's suggestion is interesting . In any fermentation process , sugar will be turned into acid . But cooking temperatures are way too high for a fermentation . You 'd have to keep the food for hours below 45 Celsius to sustain a bacterial or yeast colony ; it would flourish at even lower temperatures , around 37 Celsius , giving you obvious fermentation effects . This is a temperature which many people would find not hot enough for a bathtub , less alone to cook a soup . If the myth was born from this effect , it must come from a tradition in which the beans were soaked in warm water for hours , then cooked for a shorter time at higher temperatures , instead of being cooked all the time . There are other ingredients which should be added at the end , for example fresh herbs . They are likely to lose their flavor , not turn sour or something else . But this does n't apply to sugar , which has no aroma to speak of . Sugar also does n't get inverted by cooking . It stays as a single molecule ( sucrose ) until it starts reacting into more exotic stuff , undergoing complicated irreversible chemical reactions and turning into caramel . Inverting the sugar ( = breaking it into glucose and fructose ) is possible , but can not be done by temperature , it needs acid or seeding . Even if you were to invert some sugar with acid , it would 1 ) happen almost instantly , and 2 ) any sour taste will be due to the acid you used . Glucose and fructose are both sweet and not sour at all . So , if your sugar is getting inverted in the soup ( which will happen if you are already using other sour ingredients - but I ca n't imagine why you 'd do it if you want to avoid a sour taste ) it is not making it sour . So , I ca n't know what associations created this sugar-turns-sour myth , but it is n't true .
Rule of thumb , dairy in the north and coconut in southern recipes . ie korma would n't have coconut Indian yogurt is made with whole milk . As with western recipes , balancing the fat for good mouth-feel is important : yogurt can be a good choice when a larger quantity of liquid is called for . Cream works great when a finishing splash smooths out flavors without watering down Acidity is also important . Does the dish need a tangy component or a softening of acids ? A dish could use both : yogurt marinade then a bit of cream to finish . For richness and a hint of sweetness along with a wonderful aroma , coconut ca n't be beat but will be a discernable flavor in most curries . Many restaurants are making use of coconut where it is less than traditional with good results .
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
The culture is everywhere in the yogurt , and you are not losing all of the whey anyway . If you 'd managed to press out all of the moisture , you 'd end up with yogurt powder . Salt interferes with all kinds of microorganisms . It is much better to not add salt to culture .
According to <URL> , you can you tell if your yogurt is ready by " gently jiggling one of the containers ... the yogurt will not move if it is ready and you can take it from the yogurt maker and put it in the refrigerator then . Or you can wait and let it get more tart for 12 hours or more . " It also gives more specific instructions about the three types of yogurt makers , so you can see which one you own and follow more recommendations based on that .
Many of the commercial yoghurts use stabilizers like <URL> to prevent the yoghurt from separating during transport . All fruits naturally contain pectin ( some more than others ) , so one option , if you are making your own yoghurt at home , is to add some fruit to it . Here in the US , supermarkets carry small bags of dry pectin powder ; if you can get some of that , you could try adding it to your yoghurt . Another option is to initially heat your milk to 85 ° C for a half hour before cooling it and adding your yoghurt starter . This heating serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it gets rid of some of the excess moisture through evaporation , and ( 2 ) the heating will denature ( i.e. , stretch out and relax ) some of the milk 's proteins . Denatured proteins will be able retain more of the liquid that is in the final product . Finally , you can add powdered milk to the mix ( about 125ml of powdered milk per liter of milk ) . Powdered milk is basically just milk protein , so the added protein will help contain some of the final liquid .
Sure , it 's really not that difficult if you 've actually tasted several kinds of dashi-jiru . It 's more a matter of experience . There is decidedly a flavor to each category of dashi ; it 's not just " umami " or you would be able to get away with just throwing in a bunch of MSG into a bowl of water . But the flavor is mostly from aroma , like with other types of soup stock , since you have n't added any of the basic " tastes " other than the kombu and occasionally residual salt from the dried fish at the point the dashi is made . At home , I often make a vegetarian one with kelp and porcini , sometimes with added cabbage ; this the closest I 've been able to come to the katsuo-dashi taste without actually using fish ingredients . It 's a variation of a more standard Japanese kombu-dashi that 's made with kombu and sometimes dried shiitake , but works for a broader range of dishes than the shiitake or minimalist kombu-dashi . In practice , the main categories of dashi are these : Katsuo-dashi : Made with dried , cured skipjack tuna ( aka bonito ) , and shaved . It has a slightly bitter taste . It is best made with the addition dried kombu . Tastes richer with either thicker shavings of katsuo-bushi or just-before-cooking shaving , when possible . Niboshi-dashi : Made with small dried whole fish ( sometimes with heads removed , sometimes not , depending on the type of fish ) . Generally has a more pungent , richer flavor . There are several potential kinds of fish used and there was once substantial regional variation in this category , so the taste can vary quite a bit depending on the exact fish variety and how the fish was cured . Kombu-dashi : Made just with kombu , usually for adding a little bit of aroma and complexity to simple dishes , but rarely for soups , except for nabemono , where you 'd typically have additional seafood or meats in the hot-pot . ( I usually lump kombu-shiitake or kombu-porcini dashi in this category , but for no particular reason ) . Tori-dashi or gara-dashi : Made with chicken or other fowl bones . Except for fact that mirepoix is n't usually in the Japanese equivalent of this , so you wo n't have the celery base , it 's similar to a typical Western-style chicken broth . Ton-kotsu-dashi , made with pork bones . Generally pretty hearty and full of fat . Dashi is the analog to a soup stock , so it generally does not have added salt . Accordingly , you wo n't serve a straight dashi with an udon ; you 'd turn it into a broth , generally called " kakejiru " . This will contain added salt , shoyu , and usually some combination of sugar , sake and/or mirin . Before you put salt in it , you 'll mostly " smell " a difference . After that , you can certainly at least distinguish between katsuo and kombu dashi , and with a little practice , you can distinguish between niboshi-dashi and katsuo-dashi . For me , the difference between katsuo-dashi and the instant " hon-dashi " is usually not subtle ; the hon-dashi is a bit aggressive and harsh to my taste , but not everyone feels that way . ( For what it 's worth , I 'm as close as practical to being a vegetarian for someone who regularly dines out in Japan ) . Tonkotsu-dashi and tori-dashi are somewhat rarely used in home cooking ( though there are some exceptions in west Japan and Okinawa ) , but the taste difference is pretty obvious . I actually tend to prefer niboshi-dashi over katsuo-dashi , but it depends on the type of fish . There 's a dried sardine from Korea that I find a little harder to stomach when used in dashi . I ca n't speak to allergies , but I suppose it 's possible that different types of fish may cause some people to react differently . I suppose you 'd have to ask an allergist .
Unfortunately , the usual store bought pasteurised milk undergoes a process that kills virtually everything needed for coagulation to occur , which basically means making cheese becomes a whole lot harder . The cheese you buy from stores that is made from pasteurised milk is either made from low heat pasteurisation or by the addition of additional ingredients , typically calcium chloride . I have no idea where you may be able to acquire calcium chloride where you live but you may be able to obtain low heat pasteurised milk from health food stores , maybe some of the larger supermarkets will stock it , also .
There is no reason why you ca n't turn chocolate milk into yogurt . Now , much commercial chocolate milk has carrageenan added as a stabilizer . If you get issues with carrageenan separating out , you can also use Torani chocolate syrup ( intended to flavor coffees ) to add the flavor to normal milk .
end question
start question
How to make dutch pannekoek ?
You pour in the batter , wait for the underside to be cooked ( some brown patches ) , flip it , then put cheese on the ( browned ) top . With spek ( bacon ) , you do n't need to do this , you can just put the spek into the pan , fry it until done , then pour batter over it , and proceed as normal . Dutch pancakes are fairly thin , so they do n't take very long to cook . Spek wo n't get properly crisp if you pour the batter on it immediately , also because the watery batter cools it down . Apple pieces wo n't burn either , so you can put those in first ( I hate those , they will make your pancake break ! ) .
Preface : I 'm not a big fan of fruit-flavored stuff ( I like fresh fruit by itself , just not in stuff ... ) so I ca n't speak to these from personal experience . For fresh fruit , puree in a blender or similar . Moist fruits can probably be pureed in their own juices ; otherwise , you 'll need to add some . You 'll probably want to add some sugar , but offset this by reducing the sugar you add to the ice cream mix . ( Seeds might be an issue too - get seedless if possible . ) As Manako suggested , you can also cook it down and then puree , though this will result in a wetter mixture than with their natural juices alone . This will also present a different flavor profile from the fresh fruit , so experiment to find what you like . Another possibility would be to cook out some of the water from your puree . In any case , you 'll want to reduce the liquid ingredients of your normal recipe by roughly the same amount as the pureed fruit you 're adding . In light of the previous item , you 'll probably want to use a higher-fat cream than normal , since the fruit will add a lot of water . Unlike " chunky " additions , you do n't really care that the ice cream should be at a thick consistency before you add them . ( for suspension ) I 'd just add it directly to the mix before you start churning .
This is an art . Anyone who appreciates REAL tacos , can understand that this is not easy . God Bless anybody that can pull this off accurately ! I have it down to a science . I learned from my grandfather . His biggest secret was in the fork you use . We use cooking forks . 3 prong cooking forks ( most of the ones I see on google have two prongs ) . You can use regular forks too , but they arent made for cooking in high temp oil . First you must get the oil HOT . 350 atleast , preferably 400 degrees . Just before it starts smoking . You need really high oil heat . Once the oil is PLENTY hot , you hold a tortilla in one hand , and drop it in the oil halfway . It should be at 90 degrees , with your hand still holding the dry half of the tortilla . ( Note : keep your cooking fork ready for the next steps ) If your oil is hot enough , it will cook that half of the tortilla almost instantly . Let it cook until it hardens up , which should be less than a minute . Once the first half the bent tortilla is crisp , use the cooking fork to grab the tortilla half that is crisp and cooked . You will flip it here , putting the dry tortilla half ( that was in your hand ) into the oil , while the cooked half , sits above the oil with your fork . Now it should cook the other half of the taco shell . The art is using the fork well enough to create a gap at the base of the shell ( for meat or whatever you stuff with ) . And then flipping it and holding it with the fork while the other side crispens and finishes up . I would like to make a youtube video that shows this process , and it truly is an artform . Many people make great tacos but horrible tortilla shells . I grew up near Mexico , I was born 4 miles from Matamoros . I have seen my share of taco cooking , in the strangest of places . The best tacos Ive ever had use this method . And the best taco makers Ive ever seen wouldnt do this any other way ( by hand ) . It 's hard to do this without burning your hand ( s ) . Be careful . The dry tortilla absorbs the hot oil , even when your holding it over the grease in the first step . Youd be surprised how a corn tortilla will drink the oil right up to your hand . Give it practice . You will mess up a few tortillas . Dont worry about that , they make great quesadillas or nachos :)
For a start , any Asian dish will be effected if the chicken stock is not good . Make quality chicken stock from whole chicken carcases , and take your time with it In the case of Laksa , the key flavours are mostly in the Laksa paste ( shrimp paste and lemon grass ) . If you do n't have an equivalent of the one used at To 's you will have an entirely different dish . A lot of effort can go into a Laksa paste ( or for that matter curry pastes in general ) , in terms of exact ingredient ratios , roasting times etc , quality and freshness of ingredients etc Laksa is often made with prawn stock , not chicken stock . Save the prawn heads and other fish bits , and boil them up for a very stinky prawn stock Do n't overdo the coconut milk/cream . Stick to one brand , and start with a lot less and see how it goes , if it is lacking , add more . Record what the magic amount for your favourite brand is Getting quality and fresh ingredients for Asian dishes is often a major stumbling block for truly authentic tastes . Making your own decent Laksa paste is near impossible outside of Asia . Western grown lemon grass , tastes like , well grass ! When you 're next at To 's have a peek in the kitchen , ask if you have too . And check what they use for Laksa paste . If it 's out of a branded jar you 're in luck , if it 's homemade , it 's back to the grindstone , literally The recipe linked , does not seem like a very good Laksa recipe to me . Also a good Laksa is topped with chilli oil . This is an import part . It consists of a lot of chilli and a little garlic cocked in a cup of oil . Float a couple of spoons of this on each bowl as you serve it
The proportions on everything look correct ( including the milk ! ) EXCEPT that is a very small amount of butter for 3C flour . There is also no sugar in that recipe -- and even a very small amount of sugar will change the texture of the dough . I personally would triple the amount of butter , add 2-3T sugar , and then re-try the recipe . VERY cold butter will also help with a lighter finished baked scone . As for the comment that the oven time is too hot and long -- the temperature is good -- but I would think the baking time would fall more in the range of 15-20 minutes , depending upon whether you are baking from frozen dough or freshly made scone dough . A hot oven , as opposed to a moderate oven ( 350 degrees F -- normal for cookies and cakes ) is recommended for biscuits and scones . Since all ovens bake differently , rely less on the actual time and more on how the scone looks -- it should be lightly golden on top and not doughy in appearance in the center . A cake tester can be used to be certain that the center is fully baked . good luck -- it always seems to take a little effort to find the scone recipe that you think is perfect !!
For cooking in with the pasta , consider red or yellow bell peppers , carrots , cauliflower or other vegetables that hold their color well when heated . Also , you can help this problem a lot with good , flavorful , beautiful garnishes . Even a simple shower of minced parsley goes a long way . Lemon or orange zest is nice too . Check out this <URL> from my blog , you 'll see how the quick , fresh garnish of cherry tomatoes and parsley turns a brown pasta bright ( and maybe learn a new way to cook pasta too ) .
None of the answers so far mention collagen -- specifically , using a stock made from roasted and cracked poultry bones . You do n't have to roast the bones , but you do need to crack them -- use a large , heavy knife or cleaver ( not a chinese vegetable cleaver , you 'll screw up the edge ) to chop the bones up into about 2 " to 3 " pieces ( 5 to 7cm ) . Put them in cold water , and slowly bring it up to a simmer , and just leave it simmering for a few hours . You can add vegetables , too , but you 'll want to pitch them , as they 'll have been overcooked by the time the simmering 's done . Then strain everything , and use that as the base of your soup . If your refrigerate stock that has enough collagen in it , it 'll set up like jello , and hold its own shape . Starches can work , but they 're not ideal for soup -- flour ( unless cooked as a roux ) leaves a raw flour taste and cloudy soup ; tapioca leaves little granules in there ; corn starch will break down if you cook it too long .
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
These figures are probably made with <URL> . I think the figures are handshaped . There are <URL> . You can even look for <URL> . Basically you only need a rolling pin , a knife and tweezers . Cans , forks , any food-safe utensil that has an interesting pattern are useful . Of course there are special molds for fondant but I do n't think that you need them unless you want to make fancy things like <URL> . You can buy molds online but also in some larger hardware stores , supermarktes , or gift shops . It depends on where you are located . Fondant is quite matt . <URL> you can hold the fondant over steam or apply shortening , egg whites , corn syrup , or alcohol on the surface
I would recommend a combination toaster and convection oven . While I have a regular oven in my small apartment , I rarely use it in favor of saving energy ( and money on my energy bill ) by using the toaster/convection oven . I have purchased toaster oven sized muffin tins ( just a 6 muffin tin ) and a toaster oven sized roasting rack that fits two sizes of meat . My oven came with a roasting pan . The convection features have done wonderful things for my pies . You can get them big enough to make pizza in . As long as you are n't cooking for a crowd , it will work wonders . Things I 've successfully baked in there include : Muffins Cake ( did have to do it one cake at a time for a layer cake ) Pie ( the convection feature is perfect for pie ! ) Bread Cupcakes Pitas Steak ( well , it was a broiled steak recipe - the best I can do without a grill ) Chicken breasts I had a friend who rented a place that has a convection cooking setting on the microwave . We successfully used it to make muffins once , but I have n't tried it further .
I am going to get " unsciency " as I used to make fries for hours on end at a local mom and pop shop . How thin / thick does n't really matter , you 'll just have to adjust your frying time accordingly . 1 ) Use a starchy potato 2 ) slice your potato evenly , with a peeler if you do n't have a slicer or mandolin 3 ) soak them in water for 30 mins with a pinch of salt 4 ) let them dry a bit 5 ) blanch them with vegetable oil until they are limpy but has no visible color change ( Oil should be hot enough that when you put them in , 5 seconds later there are bubbles ) 6 ) cool them completely , I throw them into a container into the fridge 7 ) refried them by putting in enough pieces in such that it will still bubble immediately ( oil should be hot enough when you drop a spot of water or chop sticks in that it bubble immediately , but you would n't hear like a crackling or have oil splashing at you ) 8 ) Take them out one piece at a time as they change color . The key is vegetable that 's pretty much the only oil that makes things cripsy at lower frying temperature , other than bacon fat , this makes a much more golden chip , and generally a easier time to control , so you can make more at the same time . Shortening , olive oil , peanut oil , butter , lard has been tested and is n't really good . Sesame oil is good too if you like the taste of it . Also , do n't attempt to drain the oil after blanching , the oil will come out when you re-fry them . Salt or season while warm .
If the problem you 're having is that it is too watery ( I assume that 's what you mean by " too thin " ) , there might be two causes : The recipe you linked to calls for a sizable amount of stock/broth , relative to the wine . It might be assuming that you have something closer to homemade stock , which has a high concentration of gelatin , as opposed to store-brought " broth " , which is more like meat-flavoured juice . You might not have reduced it enough . A " thin layer " could mean anything , but it 's not thickness you 're concerned about , it 's viscosity . When the sauce has been reduced enough , it should have the consistency of ... sauce . As in thick , sticky , and slow-moving . If it still looks and pours like water , it 's not reduced enough . On the subject of taste , there 's also the question of which wine you use . The wine sauce is going to taste like the wine ( stronger , actually ) , which is one of the reasons why chefs will tell you not to cook with any wine that you would n't drink . It 's pretty easy to make a reduction - just continue to let water boil off until it turns into the consistency you want . If you overdo it , you can always add a little extra wine to compensate . As noted in the comment clarification - if you 're simmering at a reasonable temperature , expect to wait at least an hour , and for no less than half the water to evaporate .
If the meringues are coming out of the oven sticky , you might lower the temperature slightly and extend the drying time ( to avoid browning ) -- they should feel quite dry and very light coming out of the oven . Sugar is <URL> -- if the air is humid , any condensation -- even when you can not see it -- on the meringues will dissolve the sugar , and then they will start to feel sticky , and the downward spiral will begin . According to all my searching , it is best to make them on a low humidity day . Of course , where I live in the summer , we pretty much do n't get those . If you are having trouble with them in storage , you might try to buy some <URL> packets , and put them in the container . Most desiccant is not food safe , so it should not touch the meringue . Amazon has lots of options .
How yellow were you expecting it ? How much saffron did your recipe call for ? Generally , when a recipe calls for a " pinch " of saffron that can be anywhere from 15-20 stems ( expensive , I know ) . Saffron can take time to impart it 's yellow coloring , and the depth of that yellow can vary based on the quality , age , or phase of the moon ( not really ) . Some things you can try include : Soaking the saffron in hot water/stock for 20 minutes to an hour prior to adding . Grinding the saffron with a mortar/pestle Using more or a higher quality Another thing to keep in mind is that a lot of images are n't purely saffron induced coloring . Often turmeric is used for an additional punch , or even food coloring . Here is an example of an <URL> . Finally , your primary reason for using saffron should be for it 's remarkable and unique flavor . The yellow is just a bonus . If you want more than what your batch can give you , well ... cheat . :)
Well , looking at the recipe ... The sugar ( brown sugar + honey ) level looks roughly appropriate compared to the flour so that 's unlikely . The fat level looks a tad low for the cookies I normally do , but I 've never used oil in cookies before . You might try increasing the oil just a bit to lend extra tenderness , but I do n't think this is the real issue . ( Using oil in cookies also means you 're not <URL> , which is typically important in most cookies ... so its a bit odd , but I do n't know that it would cause them to be ' crumbly ' . ) The <URL> definitely is n't helping it to keep structural support . The recipe is basically banking on the fact that it needs to be moist to hold together . There 's not really enough liquid to form gluten to add structure ( which you do n't usually want for cookies anyway ) . Since there 's nothing in the cookie to give it ' structure ' , if you dry it out its just going to fall apart on you . I suspect your problem is from the directions of ' Do n't overbake these , or they 'll dry out a little . ' They dried out a bit too much and lost all support . It 's easy to over bake cookies and this is a recipe with very little room for error in that area .
Part one : Yes , put oil in first then put on a low/med heat . Generally cast iron should be heated gently , depending on your stove it should probably take about 5 minutes to get to a good temperature . The oil shouldnt evaporate - I 've never experienced this . As to the type of oil - I use various depending on circumstance vegetable or olive usually . Part two : I generally shake the pan gently - when the oil becomes more less viscous ( more runny ) then it is at a good temperature to start cooking . You can also put something like a small piece of onion or bread into the oil - if it starts bubbling and generally cooking then its good to go . Some people use a couple of drops of water to see when it spits but I dont like doing this partly due to the safety factor and also due to the fact itll splatter over the stove top . It depends a little on what you are cooking - if you are looking to brown some meat for example you 'd probably want it a little hotter than if you were just going to make vegetable soup .
This is what we figured out at Serious Eats : <URL> In sum , use more sugar , whip the cream , freeze in icecube trays and run through a Cuisinart at the end .
As Sobachatina said , it 's cooked like many grains , and behaves very similar to rice . You could try continuing the steaming method , and if it does not get done by the time all the water has turned to steam , start it with a bit more water . Sobachatina 's suggestion of a tight lid is also worth considering , but pay attention to the pot then , so you do n't get it boiling over . An alternative is to use a boiling method . With or without toasting it first , add 3.5 parts of water to 1 part quinoa . Cook until soft , and put through a sieve to discard the superfluous water . The upside is that , unless you are using too high a temperature , there is no way to burn it .
Well - not exactly . The reason that this technique works with lemons is that they actually do contain quite a bit of water . It 's not so much " water-free " as it is using the residual water from the rinds and un-squeezed pips . Mint contains a lot less water by weight , so if you tried it in similar portions you 'd wind up not with mint syrup , but with slightly-damp mint-flavored sugar . However , that might actually work pretty well for your intended purpose . The flavorful oils in mint will dissolve very well in sugar or in something with a lot of fats , like cream . You could try gently muddling fresh mint in a small amount of sugar and letting it sit until the mint looks ragged , dissolve the mixture in cream , filter out any little bits of mint , and then using that to make your whipped cream . You could also try breaking up the mint a bit and letting it sit in your cream for a while to extract the essential oils , but my suspicion is that you wo n't get quite as intense an extraction that way . The other option that bears mentioning is using an essential oil or extract to flavor your cream or cream cheese instead .
Adding salt and lemon should do it , or at least help a lot . What you want to do is to chop them up and rub in a little salt and a splash of lemon juice ( vinegar should work too ) . Obviously you do n't want to add so much of either that you wo n't want to eat the onion . Leave to sit in the fridge overnight and enjoy .
end question
start question
How should I organize making a cake days ahead ?
I would n't make the layers fully in the freezer . It will be hard to seal up and may dry out . Also , frozen layers are easier to work with . The freezer will dry out unsealed cake extremely fast . I 'd bake all the cake , trim and level them , wrap tightly and freeze on Thursday . Make the sauces and creams on Friday and put them in the fridge . Assemble all on Saturday .
My answer would be to add more cake flour if you have it , but AP flour will do it too , then add an additional teaspoon of baking soda . The flour will lighten the mix so it 's not so dense chocolate/cocoa , and the additional baking soda will help it rise more than a brownie . An additional egg wo n't hurt , and it will certainly help the stickier of the cake , but I do n't know if it 's necessary .
In examining sponge cake recipes , I 've noticed that some call for adding the melted butter with the flour . Some call for adding it afterwards . The important thing is to fold in that butter in a way that preserves the network of bubbles that was created while whipping your eggs ( unsure if your recipe called for whipping whole eggs with sugar or yolks with sugar and egg whites separately , but both will be creating a bubble structure integral to letting your cake rise ) . <URL> mentions that folding in flour helps to preserve that network ( as long as you do n't overhandle ) . If you over handle while folding - and you may have tipped it over the line when adding butter - you will destroy that bubble network and your cake wo n't rise as you 'd like . It 's also possible to under-handle , which will result in only a thin layer of sponge on top with a thick buttery cake underneath .
I think you 're on the right track . Curds exist with many fruits , but the most common are all very strongly flavored ( citrus , raspberry , cranberry , etc ) . As long as you use a fruit that will add a lot of flavor before adding too much liquid ( or reduce the liquid out ) , you should be fine .
I think for Indian recipes you should in general look for an unstrained , set yoghurt . There are other factors that determine the final taste and texture of the yoghurt ( the bacteria , the type of milk , length of fermentation , ... ) but you may not have much choice w.r.t. other factors than these two : Production process : Set yoghurt is yoghurt that 's made the traditional way , it 's fermented in the pot that it 's sold in . Stirred yoghurt on the other hand is fermented before being packaged ; it 's a more industrialized production process which is cheaper , but results in a more sour , thinner yoghurt . Stirred yoghurt has a smooth , pourable consistency ; whereas set yoghurt is firmer . I got a bit confused when I was using stirred yoghurt the first time I tried making <URL> and the recipe told me to whisk the yoghurt till it was smooth . The pretty sour taste of the yoghurt also did n't go well with the spices , and the juice from the cucumbers made the already-thin yoghurt too watery . You could try fixing both problems by straining the yoghurt a bit and adding sugar , but it 's better and easier to just buy set yoghurt . The yoghurt 's packaging might say explicitly what type of yoghurt it is , but if it does n't or you do n't understand the language : avoid yoghurt that comes in " milk carton " - like containers , that most definitely means it 's stirred yoghurt . A plastic pot does n't mean it 's set yoghurt though , but it 's a better bet . Thickness : Strained yoghurt ( like " Greek-style yoghurt " in Europe and the USA ) is yoghurt from which the whey has been removed . It 's pretty thick and sometimes also referred to as " yoghurt cheese . " In India it 's used for example in the dessert <URL> , but if a recipe does n't specify that you should strain the yoghurt , you should assume it 's unstrained or briefly strained . Wikipedia <URL> : " In south Asia , regular unstrained yoghurt ( dahi ) , made from cow or water buffalo milk , is often sold in disposable clay pots . Kept for a couple of hours in its clay pot , some of the water evaporates through the clay 's pores . But true strained yoghurt ( chakka ) is made by draining dahi in a cloth . " Should you really only find strained yoghurt , you can probably just thin it back with water or milk . I should maybe add I do n't have first-hand experience with what yoghurt from India tastes like , but I 've observed that the ethnic shops in my area and one Indian take-away where I could peer into the kitchen all sell/use the exact same brand of yoghurt , which is an unstrained , set yoghurt with a mild ( not too sour ) taste .
Invert the bottom layer , top down , on a plate . Add the ice cream , but do not spread it to the outside edge of the cake . Top with the second cake layer , pressing gently . Then , using a sharp knife , slice vertically completely around the edge , removing the sloped edges of the cake . Surround the outside edge with a wrap of parchment paper or foil . Chill . After the cake is firm , you can slice horizontally to level the mound at the top of the cake , if you wish , before removing the paper/foil cuff .
The purpose mixing the butter and sugar until creamy is to distribute air through the batter that will help leaven the cake in the oven . Skipping this step can create a denser cake . You want to add the air into the batter before adding the flour in order to prevent over mixing , which creates gluten ; causing a tougher texture . Beating the eggs until foamy and folding them into the batter or adding the eggs to the butter/sugar and beating until fluffy will also create a lighter texture . The sugar does not need to dissolve in the butter , but it should be evenly distributed . <URL> gives a good visual on how creamed butter &amp; sugar should look .
I once left a whole New York strip in the walk in cooler for two weeks and it was great . Chances are that the salt and acid in the marinade preserved the pork well enough it would still be safe to eat after six days . I would check for slime and foul odor . There are several other factors involved such as how it was handled before put in the refrigerator . For example , a piece of pork that was at room temp for one hour with a semi sterile knife trimming it might not last three days . I always go with whether it has an off odor or not . I find that meat which has aged a little in the fridge will have a more robust defined flavor . If you run your finger across it and feel any type of slime just get rid of it .
Great french toast starts with the bread . You 're looking for two things : thick slices , and staleness . Why stale ? Stale bread has enough firmness to stand up to the custard . If you do n't have stale bread available , you can set it out the night before in a simple wire rack . At least 8 hours should be enough to stale it up nicely . They will be rather firm to the touch . The ideal finished product is crispy on the outside and creamy in the middle . This might be what you mean by mushy , but mushy in my mind is kind of negative . The key to accomplishing this is to let your bread soak in the custard only 30 seconds per side , but then move it to a rack to sit for another 2 minutes further . This extra set time allows the custard to penetrate deep inside the bread , and be distributed much more evenly . The final trick to getting a nice crispy crust , is to cook it twice . First in the pan/griddle as you normally would , but then 5 minutes in a 375 F oven on a rack . This brief oven stint crisps up the exterior nicely . I highly suggest watching Alton Brown 's <URL> episode . That 's where I learned the oven trick , and his recipe has n't done me wrong since . Regarding <URL> , I 've never had it , but based on the Wikipedia description it sure sounds like a good candidate . Just make sure you slice and stale it overnight .
Yes , you can refrigerate after the machine has kneaded the dough . Cover the bowl tightly . In the morning , take the dough out of the fridge and let it ' wake up ' in a warm place for an hour , cut and shape , then either prove them again or bake straight away ( a second prove will give you a lighter texture ) .
Citrus zest is where most citrus flavour in a sauce or baked good actually comes from because it remains in solid form , like herbs and spices . The juice adds some flavour but it turns into solution and gets spread out over a very large surface area/volume . I do n't know why you decided not to use the zest - are you using commercial orange juice ? If so , that may be part of the problem too - processed juices are not going to be as flavourful as homemade , in part because of the mechanical separation of pulp ( even if it is subsequently re-incorporated to make a juice " with pulp " ) . Orange juice is effectively your water in this recipe so doubling it means you need to double everything else . In other words you 'll have exactly the same ratios and therefore exactly the same taste . If it came out too dry then that means you either ( a ) baked too long , ( b ) overworked the batter , ( c ) <URL> or ( d ) <URL> . Nothing to do with the OJ content . If you really want to add more orange flavour beyond what the original recipe would give you , use <URL> , it 's a highly concentrated orange flavour and is usually derived from ( surprise ! ) the zest , or made to taste like one . But I would suggest to try following the recipe correctly before doing this .
My technique : 1 tbsp Fat ( from pan , or use butter ) 1 tbsp Flour Pan Juice Stock ( total liquid about 2 cups - omit if you have enough pan juice ) Step 1 : Make Roux Melt fat in medium high saute pan Whisk in flour , getting out all the lumps . ( This is called a roux ) Continue to heat until smooth , and the roux is just starting to darken . Remove pan from heat . Step 2 : Prepare Liquids Remove solids from roasting pan . ( let meat stand ... etc. ) Whisk , scrape , deglaze the roasting pan . If it 's brown , you want it , and want it dissolved Strain juices . skim off excess fat . Step 3 : Assemble Return roux to heat , and keep whisking . While whisking , slowly pour in the pan juices . Once blended , reduce heat and let it thicken . Salt to taste .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
I write it as a seasoned carbon steel knife user and a hobbyist knifemaker . Use edible oil or nothing Safety first . You can use any oil as long as you are really , really sure you would n't mind it added to your food . Patina is good . There are two kinds of iron oxide . Let 's call them red ( rust ) and black ( patina ) . Black one is good . It mitigates red rust It 's less sticky It 's mostly tasteless It 's main drawback - it 's ugly . <URL> This is my everyday carbon steel knife . It 's scrached and developed patina . It does not mind being used for cooking . It no longer requires wiping every minute , it can well be washed and dried after few hours . How to develop good patina ? First , the less patina you already have , the slower you need to go . Do n't keep virgin steel wet too long . Only after it begins to darken you can allow it to stay wet longer . Remove red rust when you see it . But do n't just use scrubber . If you want to develop patina fast , you should boil your knfe 's blade for ten or twenty minutes when you see it getting red . This will convert some red to black . Then gently scrub the rest of red from your blade . If you do n't want to boil , just gently remove rust , carefully not destroying patina . If you want to artificially develop patina , dijon mustard is especially good for that . Few hours in warm place should do the job . Lemon juice is not half bad , either .
When the grill has cooled completely ( after dinner ) : I take some kitchen paper or some newspaper and clean off as much as possible . I use a wire brush with a scraper to brush the grill , and scrape off any bits that are stuck on . I DO NOT re-oil , and the grill stays nice and greasy for the next usage . Before the snow of winter rolls around , I take it all apart , clean the plates with a BBQ cleaning foam and water , and the cover that goes over the burners gets a good scraping , then I wash and clean the frame . This way , the grill will last years of good use .
It does n't really matter . A lot of people cook them with peel still on and peel it with their hands when cooked ( Careful , hot ! ) . You can peel them before you cook them , and then it 's just a question of taste I 'd say . Personally , I would peel off the white as well , though I 'm not sure about this .
It is possible to over brine meat . If you leave it in too long it will get too salty . If you use a more dilute brine it wo n't get as salty but you will wash out more of the natural flavor into the water as well . You could submerge your turkey in its packaging in ice water in a cooler for a day before brining . You could even thaw the turkey in this manner if you made sure to keep it in ice water so it did n't get to 40F .
Removing things from the oven halfway through is not very friendly to baked goods . In general , they 'll collapse as they cool off since the structure is n't cooked and set , and the leavening ( baking soda/powder in these cases ) will be spent , so there 's no way to get what you originally wanted . It might be something like what 'd happen if you forgot the leavening in the first place . In general : if there 's only 5-15 minutes left , just leave it in , and the heat retained by the oven will take care of things . If it 's barely started - just beginning to get warm , not bubbling/rising much - probably best to take it out and wait to bake later , especially if it 's something that can survive waiting at room temperature . Anything else , leave it in and hope the power comes back ; it 's going to be ruined if you take it out and ruined if the power does n't come back on so you might as well go for it . So for example , cookies could probably survive this by leaving them in . They do n't have very long baking times - somewhere in the 5-15 minute range . Your oven wo n't cool off all that much in that time without power . So if you leave them in for a little bit longer than the original baking time , they 'll probably be fine . If your oven has a window , look in with a flashlight to check on them - you do n't want to open it to check them . A cake is iffier . If it 's 15 minutes into a 45 minute baking time , you may just be out of luck . I think I 'd still leave it in , hoping that the power comes back within 5-10 minutes , in which case it 'd probably make it . As I mentioned earlier , if you lose power early and for long enough , the cake will have spent its leavening and collapsed . You could finish baking it , but it 'll still be collapsed - it probably wo n't have a terribly palatable texture ( definitely dense , maybe chewy ) . The only time this has actually happened to me was with some cornbread muffins , around 2/3 of the way through their baking time , and the oven did n't have a window . I wildly guessed how much extra time to add , pulled them out then , and they were great . So there is hope !
Ehow has an article on the specific dangers non-stick coatings can cause to humans and pets including fumes from heating a pan to too high a temperature , which I was unaware of . Of course , if the coating is flaking or fuzzy-looking , actual coating material , which is a carcinogen , can leach into the food cooked in the pan . Link to the Ehow article : <URL>
15-20 seconds seems to be all it needs for me , and then scoop them up and shock them in iced water to stop them cooking .
end question
start question
Should I purchase and use a grease or oil splash screen ?
They are one more item to clean , but they are a lot easier to clean than the walls and stove . I have several in different sizes - very worthwhile in my opinion .
Not much is out there . Food-grade silicone oil ( dimethylpolysiloxane , for the chemists out there ) is routinely used in medical and food-prep devices , and it has been approved by the US FDA Office of Food Additive Safety for use as a direct additive in diverse foods , like milk , dry gelatin dessert mix , canned pineapple juice , and even salt . Of course , we 're talking about minuscule amounts , in the range of 100 ppm ; at high concentrations , it is a skin and eye irritant . So what level is safe ? We ca n't assume that the FDA ever tested it , as the Office of Food Additive Safety is woefully underfunded . An informal literature search yielded me only a handful of scientific articles looking at silicone oil in frying . The most promising was by Bertrand Matthaus , Norbert Haase , and Klaus Vossman , " Factors affecting the concentration of acrylamide during deep fat frying of potatoes , " Eur . J. Of Lipid Sci . &amp; Tech. , V. 106 ( 11 ) , pp. 793-801 ( Nov 2004 ) ( fig. 3 specifically measures acrylamide concentration as a function of the amount of silicone oil ) . Unfortunately , I do n't have a subscription , so I ca n't tell what the bottom line was . Myself , I do n't see the benefit of using it at home .
Either would be safe . You will get better quality by freezing them uncooked . They should not get soggy due to the freezing , as neither the meat filling , nor the wrappers , are particularly subject to ice crystal damage . Gyoza are very small , so you should not need to thaw them : just begin the steaming phase right out of the freezer , and they will thaw while cooking . If you do wish to thaw them , do it in the refrigerator and they will be perfectly safe , despite the raw filling . You are correct that if you freeze them after cooking , you will loose the crispy bottoms -- this would be true if you save them as left overs in the refrigerator as well .
They are one more item to clean , but they are a lot easier to clean than the walls and stove . I have several in different sizes - very worthwhile in my opinion .
They are technically two different pastries . Shortcrust pastry made with water is called pâte a foncer , ' lining pastry ' . Shortcrust pastry made with milk is called pâte brisée . Pâte brisée typically contains a bit more butter , and is generally lighter and flakier than pâte a foncer , which is conversely crisper and firmer . So it 's up to you really ; both are very similar . The pâte brisée is more delicate , so if you have a ' heavy ' filling , say , lots of fruits , it might be better to go with the foncer .
Version B runs the risk of overheating the pan and damaging the coatings on it . I 've always been told to put oil in the pan before heating for that reason - nothing to do with taste . I 'd seriously doubt you could detect any difference in taste .
This is going to depend on how long you want to keep it for . If you 're serving it soon ( say , same day , maybe next ) , then do n't refrigerate it at all , though some people seem to think it gives better flavor to refrigerate overnight . If you 've used e.g. , buttercream frosting , you 'll need to refrigerate or freeze it , unless you 're serving immediately after frosting . Some fillings may also require refrigeration . If you 're storing short term , up to maybe a week , refrigerate it . If you 're going to be storing it long-term ( more than a few days , up to three months ) , you 'll need to tightly wrap it once its cooled , and freeze it . After more than 3 -- 4 months , flavor will be lost , but it 'll still be safe to eat , as long as its stayed at 0 ° F / -17 ° C or below .
Pizza hut uses skim milk mozzarella on it 's pizza , at least in the USA . Not sure what they use in other countries , but I would imagine it is still the same . Skim milk mozzarella is extremely stretchy , but loses a little on the flavor end . More expensive pizzerias normally spring for the full fat mozzarella cheese . Dominos uses a mix of cheese , made up of mozzarella , Pecarino , Parmesan , and asiago cheeses . I think in their most recent reboot they switched to part skim mozzarella but I am not one hundred percent on that .
There are different ' camps ' when it comes to seasoning but essentially If you season meat too early before cooking , the salt will draw out the moisture , meaning a less juicy piece of meat , however if you season just before cooking the seasoning will help to impart flavour into the meat . If you seal the meat and then season it , the sealed meat will not release any juice . Hence the two theories .
I think for Indian recipes you should in general look for an unstrained , set yoghurt . There are other factors that determine the final taste and texture of the yoghurt ( the bacteria , the type of milk , length of fermentation , ... ) but you may not have much choice w.r.t. other factors than these two : Production process : Set yoghurt is yoghurt that 's made the traditional way , it 's fermented in the pot that it 's sold in . Stirred yoghurt on the other hand is fermented before being packaged ; it 's a more industrialized production process which is cheaper , but results in a more sour , thinner yoghurt . Stirred yoghurt has a smooth , pourable consistency ; whereas set yoghurt is firmer . I got a bit confused when I was using stirred yoghurt the first time I tried making <URL> and the recipe told me to whisk the yoghurt till it was smooth . The pretty sour taste of the yoghurt also did n't go well with the spices , and the juice from the cucumbers made the already-thin yoghurt too watery . You could try fixing both problems by straining the yoghurt a bit and adding sugar , but it 's better and easier to just buy set yoghurt . The yoghurt 's packaging might say explicitly what type of yoghurt it is , but if it does n't or you do n't understand the language : avoid yoghurt that comes in " milk carton " - like containers , that most definitely means it 's stirred yoghurt . A plastic pot does n't mean it 's set yoghurt though , but it 's a better bet . Thickness : Strained yoghurt ( like " Greek-style yoghurt " in Europe and the USA ) is yoghurt from which the whey has been removed . It 's pretty thick and sometimes also referred to as " yoghurt cheese . " In India it 's used for example in the dessert <URL> , but if a recipe does n't specify that you should strain the yoghurt , you should assume it 's unstrained or briefly strained . Wikipedia <URL> : " In south Asia , regular unstrained yoghurt ( dahi ) , made from cow or water buffalo milk , is often sold in disposable clay pots . Kept for a couple of hours in its clay pot , some of the water evaporates through the clay 's pores . But true strained yoghurt ( chakka ) is made by draining dahi in a cloth . " Should you really only find strained yoghurt , you can probably just thin it back with water or milk . I should maybe add I do n't have first-hand experience with what yoghurt from India tastes like , but I 've observed that the ethnic shops in my area and one Indian take-away where I could peer into the kitchen all sell/use the exact same brand of yoghurt , which is an unstrained , set yoghurt with a mild ( not too sour ) taste .
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
Disclaimer : I 've never tried to make a ganache with olive oil , so take that into consideration as you read the following . First , I have to assume that you 're trying to use olive oil to replace the cream that 's normally used in making ganache , perhaps to make a non-dairy ganache . If that 's not right , please clarify your question . Ganache is essentially an emulsion of cocoa butter ( usually from chocolate ) and cream , plus vanilla and/or other flavorings , that is allowed to cool to the point where the cocoa butter solidifies . It 's the solidified cocoa butter that gives ganache it 's firm texture . The greater the ratio of cocoa butter to cream , the firmer the ganache will be . If you want to replace the cream , you 'll need to make sure that you replace all the components that have an effect on the emulsion . Harold McGee 's <URL> explains the structure of ganache : The continuous phase of this mixture , the portion that permeates it , is a syrup made from the cream 's water and the chocolate 's sugar . Suspended in the syrup are the milk fat globules from the cream , and cocoa butter droplets and solid cocoa particles from the chocolate . He does n't say it , but I 'd guess that the milk proteins from the cream might act as emulsifiers to help stabilize the emulsion , much as they do with <URL> . The melting point of olive oil is obviously different from that of butterfat , but since you heat the cream in order to make ganache anyway , olive oil might still work . Given what McGee says , you 'll need to make sure that you add an appropriate amount of water so that there 's enough syrup to suspend the butterfat , cocoa butter , and solids . How much is an appropriate amount ? Cream is usually 20-40 % butterfat , so starting with a 1 part oil for 2 parts water seems reasonable . You might also need to add something that 'll act as an emulsifier , like lecithin .
I have looked extensively and it seems that whether to boil or steam is determined by region and it is as subjective as the fillings used . See below from this <URL> . Other variations include using black instead of white glutinous rice , or precooking the rice and filling , or steaming instead of boiling , or even wrapping into a cylindrical shape or a flat paddle shape instead of a pyramidal one . You may be able to make a decision based on certain factors of your recipe . For example : Some recipes call for the rice to be soaked while others call for it to be cooked . If I was using soaked rice I would probably choose boiling as the zongzi may become too dry with steaming . Same idea for other ingredients . Another consideration would be how well the zongzi are wrapped . If they are wrapped very skillfully , either way could work . However , if not , the filling could come out much easier with boiling . So , in the end , I would say that there really is n't a really definitive answer . I think I would use the method called for in the recipe as there may be specific reasons the prescribed cooking method was chosen .
Frying the chicken tends to set the muscle fibers by drawing moisture out . An example of this would be taking a thin ( 1cm ) cutlet and frying it until both sides start to turn golden . It will be pretty dry and hard . Pressure cooking it on the other hand tends to soften the muscle fibers without drawing moisture in ( if anything , its putting moisture in ) . So , ideally , you should boil/pressure cook your chicken prior to frying in oil ( though do make sure to drain the chicken first to prevent splatters ! ) . Additionally , you should undercook the chicken slightly in the pressure cooker since you 'll be finishing it in the fryer . If you are broasting the chicken , then you are going about the recipe incorrectly by frying then pressure cooking it . When broasting , you should pressure fry - if that makes sense .
According to <URL> , the preparation of a wat begins with chopped onions slow cooked , without any fat or oil , in a dry skillet or pot until much of their moisture has been driven away . Fat ( usually niter kibbeh ) is then added , often in quantities that might seem excessive by modern Western standards , and the onions and other aromatics are sautéed before the addition of other ingredients . This method causes the onions to break down and thicken the stew .
The existence of gas in a vacuum-sealed environment could be a sign of microbial activity . I would assume that , since the package appears to be sealed , that the gases in it were introduced from within . I would toss that one and feel OK using the other two .
Depends on how many solids and how much water you have in it . If you 've rendered , filtered , and refined it , it should last a few weeks easy . Note : my mother maintained it never EVER went bad , refrigerated or not . Lot of old time southern cooks will say the same , but they all go through it fast .
<URL> , using olive oil to fry is basically a waste of money . " After I 'd heated them , none of the olive oils had much olive flavor left . In fact , they did n't taste much different from the seed oils . " According to a <URL> I have access to , you could use high oleic sunflower oil for frying as it degrades better .
Maybe ! There 's one big potential issue : panini presses are hinged differently . There 's a bit of variation exactly how , but the effect is that the entire top can lift up , so that it can press down flat on whatever you stick in there . Waffle irons are just designed to be filled , so they hinge at the back . If your sandwich is much smaller than the waffle iron , you can put it in the front part ( as far from the hinge as possible ) , and it wo n't matter too much , but if it takes up a decent fraction of the area , it 'll be squeezed pretty tight at the back compared to the front . This will probably make it cook unevenly , and depending on what you 've got in there , might squeeze things out . Some panini presses also have better temperature controls than waffle irons , but that 's probably not as much of a concern . So I 'd give it a shot and see how it works , plan on possibly flipping your sandwich around halfway through , and do n't be too upset if it 's not pretty ! ( rfusca 's comment above is also good - if you 're able to take off the hinge , you 'd avoid the whole problem . )
Is it safe ? maybe . Is it recommended ? No . If you 're going to save bacon grease ( or other fats ) , I 'd recommend : straining it putting it into a different container to minimize the surface area exposed to air keeping the container in the fridge . Although , the first one , I admit I do n't do -- as I 'm not cooking bacon every day , I 've generally used up my supply by the time I 've got more ... so I fill a glass jar , and let solids settle to the bottom ... then just use the stuff off the top as I need it , until I get so far down the jar that I hit the darker strata , when I then dispose of the whole thing . ( I recycle jars for this , then pitch the whole thing ... you do n't want to go washing bacon grease down the drain , it does nasty things to your pipes ) ... If you 're going to do what you are , you 'll want to make sure that you hold the pan at 250 ° F ( 121 ° C ) for at least three minutes , preferably longer , to kill off botulism spores , unless you 're fond of that whole paralysis thing .
end question
start question
Do cooks in the US measure volume using ' traditional ' or ' legal ' units ?
Great question Chris ! I 'm a US baker who has been baking for a LONG time and never gave it any thought whether my measuring utensils are " legal " or " traditional " - they say " 1 cup " , " 1 Tsp " , " 1 TBSP " , etc. . In practice , all this has meant to me is that when my US recipes call for 1 cup of flour , I measure 1 level measuring cup of flour . Same for teaspoons and tablespoons . My European cookbooks refer to ingredients in weight ( 250 grams , for example ) . In those cases , I would either convert those measurements into my more familiar cups , tsp 's , TBSP 's , etc. , or use another set of utensils with measurements marked on the side . While I 've used the written measurements for a guideline , I 've always also depended on the preparation instructions to determine the correct consistency of the dough or batter . This is particularly true for flour and liquids . Regarding uniformity in the measurement tools , unfortunately for the home cook , there is no one monopoly . Every grocery store , dollar store and cooking store has an assortment of measuring cups and spoons . Some of the better measuring cups , like those from Pyrex , have volumes written on the side of the cup to use as guides .
In southwest of France , we serve confit with " pommes sarladaises " , which are more or less fries cooked in duck fat in a pan . There is also garlic and parsley . You can use confit in " cassoulet " as well . This is something like chili con carne with white beans instead of red ones , onion , carrot , tomato , garlic ( and many other secrets which change from home to home ) . EDIT : A variant of " pommes de terre sarladaises " includes mushrooms , in particular " cèpes " ( <URL> ) together with potatoes .
I do n't think there is really a US equivalent , but a Moroccan tagine would be close .
Assuming you 're talking about USA usage , you 're correct , a " cup " is usually 6oz . In the USA , the standard size for a " cup " of coffee is 6oz , even though nobody drinks cups of coffee that small ( 12oz to 20oz is more common ) . For that matter , the size of a " cup " of tea can be 5oz or 6oz when the number of " cups " a teapot holds is listed ; a " 6 cup " teapot is only 32oz . However , be careful how the word is used in American recipes . If a recipe calls for a " cup " of coffee , they are more likely to be calling for an 8oz cup , rather than a 6oz cup . I ca n't find a clear reference as to where the unrealistic 6oz measurement for a cup of coffee started . Likely it was some episode of cost-cutting validated by Federal regulation -- or possibly the result of Mr. Coffee -- but we 're stuck with it as customary now . However , even though a 6oz cup of coffee may be customary , specific coffee maker manufacturers may use different measurements on different models , including cups as small as 4.2 oz . So do n't assume unless you 've checked . Oh , and also note that the 8oz cup is American , rather than Imperial measurement . An Imperial cup is around 10oz , although you 're unlikely to encounter this measurement in any recipe published after World War I. Confused yet ?
I certainly would n't want to be chewing through avocado skin . Unless you plan on throwing it in a blender and liquifying it , it 'd be pretty nasty .
Well , if you really want a " definitive " way to measure when lactic fermentation is complete , you 'd have to do a laboratory test directly for residual sugars . Most traditional foods that are lactic-acid fermented do n't have enough sugar to reach a final acidity that will self-limit continued fermentation by killing all the bacteria . ( Foods with too much sugar also often tend to spontaneously undergo yeast fermentation and lead to alcohol production instead if not monitored . ) Given the wide variety of fermentation products that can result from initial ingredients and different fermentation conditions , it 's really difficult to come up with some sort of " test strip " or something for residual sugar that is accurate . Home fermenters rarely bother with such things , but large-scale commercial fermentation sometimes tests residual sugar content for batches to ensure shelf-stability . That said , a specific recipe with specific starting ingredients will often have a target pH range , depending on the quantity of sugar in the ingredients , the amount of salt ( which in excess will inhibit further fermentation ) , desired flavor , etc. . The composition of the ingredients will determine the mininum possible pH when fermentation is effectively complete . The desired pH of lacto-fermented foods can vary anywhere from about 3.0 ( even down to ~ 2.75 for some sweet relishes ) to 4.5 ( more common in grain-based ferments , or quick-fermented vegetables meant to be used up quickly ) . To answer the specific question for sauerkraut , I 'd say most people would say sauerkraut fermentation is " complete " when a pH of ~ 3.5 or below is reached ( though opinions may vary ) . Part of the difficulty in answering the question is that home fermentation is often done with the intention of keeping the food " alive " even when it is consumed , which means fermentation will still be ongoing . In most traditional food cultures around the word , lactic acid fermentation is often deliberately incomplete , only used for a short period to transform an ingredient and then use it within a dish for consumption . This contrasts with much alcohol production , where continued fermentation in your final product can obviously create various difficulties for bottling , proper aging , etc. . And some people just prefer food at various earlier stages in the fermentation process . To take sauerkraut as an example , a pH of 4.0-4 .5 will be achieved rather quickly ( usually within a few days , depending on temperature , salt content , etc. ) . Some people prefer the taste of a fresher , crunchier product , and they may only ferment for a few days and then refrigerate to slow down fermentation significantly . Other people like to go much further and will ferment sauerkraut anywhere from a month to several months , again depending on temperature -- to achieve a final pH below 3.5 and even down to ~ 3.0 . Over time , the final product will obviously get more sour , but it will also soften and various nutritional changes will take place . It 's all a matter of preference when done at home . Lastly , in reference to the " lagering " aspect of the question , I think the closest analog in lacto-fermentation is the fact that various processes ( and various bacteria ) will work better at different temperatures . A higher temperature fermentation , for example , may result in a greater acetic acid component in the final ingredients , enhancing the " sharp " vinegar notes . At lower temperatures other bacteria may become more prominent in the fermentation , and in some temperature ranges enzymes and natural ( spoilage ) reactions may help to change flavor and texture too . Anyhow , for these reasons , some people prefer to refrigerate fermented foods or hold them for a while at " cold cellar " temperatures to allow these " aging " mechanisms to work as bacteria slow down ( analogous to lagering ) . Whether this is done after fermentation is effectively complete or at an earlier stage when the food is less sour again depends on individual preference .
Unfortunately , the usual store bought pasteurised milk undergoes a process that kills virtually everything needed for coagulation to occur , which basically means making cheese becomes a whole lot harder . The cheese you buy from stores that is made from pasteurised milk is either made from low heat pasteurisation or by the addition of additional ingredients , typically calcium chloride . I have no idea where you may be able to acquire calcium chloride where you live but you may be able to obtain low heat pasteurised milk from health food stores , maybe some of the larger supermarkets will stock it , also .
In the oven , that heat is coming from all directions more or less equally . On the stovetop , the heat is coming only from the bottom . This can potentially cause convection , and almost certainly requires occasional stirring ( especially for larger batches ) , meaning that the ingredients are being moved around . The combination of the ingredients being heated more when they 're at the bottom and the movement can cause them to start breaking apart , and generally cook unevenly . Personally , I only find this to be an issue with beans and meat ( and it 's not something that 's going to cause failure ; it 's really just a refinement ) but if you are making an especially large batch of stew , you may want to try the oven .
I do n't know that there are studies on using different kinds of kelp with beans , but I have used both kombu strips and kelp granules interchangeably when cooking beans . The results seem to be the same either way .
Yes , you can safely soak it at room temperature , but why would you ? There 's no reason not to refrigerate . Meat is safe for about 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40F/4C to 140F/60C . Beyond that , it should be cooked or refrigerated . So , if you do decide to soak at room temperature you should cook or chill it promptly .
Peanut ( groundnut ) oil is a great option . In the US vegetable oil generally means soybean oil or a soybean oil blend . The main things are that it be neutral ( little or no taste of its own ) , with a high smoke point . On those scores , you ca n't do much better than peanut oil . I have not used rice bran oil . Yellow squash generally means this : ( the long one ) It can also mean the other yellow vegetable in the picture or this : What it is not , is butternut : That is a different flavor entirely . Yellow squash is more like zucchini , butternut squash is more like pumpkin . Welcome to Seasoned Advice .
This is going to depend on how long you want to keep it for . If you 're serving it soon ( say , same day , maybe next ) , then do n't refrigerate it at all , though some people seem to think it gives better flavor to refrigerate overnight . If you 've used e.g. , buttercream frosting , you 'll need to refrigerate or freeze it , unless you 're serving immediately after frosting . Some fillings may also require refrigeration . If you 're storing short term , up to maybe a week , refrigerate it . If you 're going to be storing it long-term ( more than a few days , up to three months ) , you 'll need to tightly wrap it once its cooled , and freeze it . After more than 3 -- 4 months , flavor will be lost , but it 'll still be safe to eat , as long as its stayed at 0 ° F / -17 ° C or below .
Personally , I just throw them into stir fries or fried rice ( add them near the end of the cooking time ) . I 've also had them slightly stir fried with pea shoots in sesame oil . Simple but delicious . Tofu666 , an amazing vegan blogger , fries them often . Here 's a sample : <URL> This page has instructions for pickling them : <URL>
Poultry grading in the US is voluntary , while inspection is mandatory . Per the <URL> : Chicken Inspection All chickens found in retail stores are either inspected by USDA or by State systems which have standards equivalent to the Federal government . Each chicken and its internal organs are inspected for signs of disease . The " Inspected for wholesomeness by the U.S. Department of Agriculture " seal ensures that the chicken is free from visible signs of disease . Chicken Grading Inspection is mandatory , but grading is voluntary . Chickens are graded according to the USDA Agricultural Marketing Service 's regulations and standards for meatiness , appearance , and freedom from defects . Grade A chickens have plump , meaty bodies and clean skin , free of bruises , broken bones , feathers , cuts , and discoloration . The actual US poultry grading standards can be found in the <URL> . Grade A chicken overall ( the actual standards take 5 pages ) : Looks nice -- no discolorations , marks , bruises , or inappropriate cuts Has at least 75 % of the skin covering it ( where appropriate ) Is plump and " well fleshed " All the feathers have been removed Any chicken that was actually graded will almost certainly be labelled , as it is a marketing issue . Otherwise , it is ungraded but inspected chicken . My personal experience is that most retail chicken , at least where I live , is ungraded . Factors that affect the toughness or quality of the chicken , in decreasing order of importance , include : The age of the bird Any injections or additions to the meat , such as a saline brine , by the packer ; brining partially denatures the proteins in the meat , and may contribute to the " rubbery " texture mentioned in the question The way the bird was treated and fed ( some heirloom or boutique chickens are raised in a more traditional manner , where they move about much more , and may have a more varied diet , and so have tougher , but more flavorful meat as a result -- but I do n't want to turn this into a political treatise on poultry production methods ) The breed of the bird The size of commercial chicken is almost entirely related to the age of the chicken ; thus the relative toughness of the meat is fairly well correlated with size .
In a small toaster oven , using a pizza stone is likely to be a tradeoff : Toasting -- counter-productive , because it will shield the bottom of the bread ( or other item ) from the direct radiative heat from the bottom elements ; you would want to remove the stone for this use . Broiling ( or as it is called in the British parlance if I understand correctly , grilling ) -- Probably not a good idea . In a full sized oven , the stone would be left far enough from the heating elements that it would not be subject to intense radiative heat . In a toaster oven , it might be too close to the elements when the oven is used this way , so might be subject to cracking due to a higher temperature gradient and uneven thermal expansion . General baking -- will require a longer a pre-heating period for the oven/stone to come up to temperature , but once at temperature , will provide a buffering effect for more even heating . Convenience -- in full sized ovens , people often leave the stone in all of the time , and cook on a different rack if they do n't want direct contact with the stone . This may or may not be possible or convenient in a toaster oven , so you may be constantly removing or putting back the stone based on your current use Note that all of the above is just reasoning based on known facts ; I have n't tried a pizza stone in a toaster oven , and would n't do so , as they have a generally low thermal mass . I tend to think of them as tools for toasting and reheating , not for primary cooking , baking , or roasting .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
I often use this technique at home to cook proteins . It shortens cooking time by using steam as a heat transfer medium to cook the top of the item at the same time as the bottom . You can also use this method on frittatas , dumplings , etc. . You can also use flavored liquids to impart flavor as well . I particularly like hard cider with chicken and pork .
Usually it 's best to cook dried noodles in boiling water , and drain and rinse them in cold water when they are done . This does a couple of things : helps ensure that the noodle is equally cooked all the way through ( instead of getting overcooked on the outside by the time the centre is cooked ) . by using separate water , you do n't fill your broth with starch , which would adversely affect the taste , colour and consistency . If you want to add the noodles directly to the broth , I would recommend rinsing them in cold water first ( like you would with rice ) until the water runs clear . This will prevent excess starch from being added to your dish . You could also try adding a stock cube to the water that you boil the noodles in , if your goal is simply to make the noodles more flavourful .
A Baker 's ( now owned by kraft foods ) employee named Sam German developed a chocolate recipe that was sweeter than semi-sweet chocolate , as well as containing a blend of chocolate liquor , sugar , cocoa butter , flavorings , and lecithin . Baker 's honored Sam by naming the chocolate that he created Baker 's German 's Chocolate . In 1957 the recipe was published in a Dallas newspaper , although nobody is sure exactly when the recipe was originally created . Generally Foods - who had bought the brand - noticed that alot of people liked the recipe and started a PR campaign for German 's Chocolate using the recipe . They started sending it to newspapers all over - and people liked it . At some point the " 's " got dropped from the name , introducing all of the confusion we have about the origin of the cake today . References : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Great question Chris ! I 'm a US baker who has been baking for a LONG time and never gave it any thought whether my measuring utensils are " legal " or " traditional " - they say " 1 cup " , " 1 Tsp " , " 1 TBSP " , etc. . In practice , all this has meant to me is that when my US recipes call for 1 cup of flour , I measure 1 level measuring cup of flour . Same for teaspoons and tablespoons . My European cookbooks refer to ingredients in weight ( 250 grams , for example ) . In those cases , I would either convert those measurements into my more familiar cups , tsp 's , TBSP 's , etc. , or use another set of utensils with measurements marked on the side . While I 've used the written measurements for a guideline , I 've always also depended on the preparation instructions to determine the correct consistency of the dough or batter . This is particularly true for flour and liquids . Regarding uniformity in the measurement tools , unfortunately for the home cook , there is no one monopoly . Every grocery store , dollar store and cooking store has an assortment of measuring cups and spoons . Some of the better measuring cups , like those from Pyrex , have volumes written on the side of the cup to use as guides .
end question
start question
How can I make milk cocoa powder so it does not stick to the top and bottom ?
I do not think your problem is an emulsifier that you are missing , I think it 's just basic temperature and technique ' issues ' . Firstly , you will get a better result if you use a liquid chocolate syrup . It 's like adding granulated sugar to an iced coffee - it will sweeten the cold liquid a bit , but most of the grains will just get wet and clump together at the bottom and not mix together . That 's why using a simple syrup is a better idea , because the solid elements ( sugar ) have already been incorporated into a liquid form so the cold temperature wo n't be a detriment to mixing . However , if you really want to keep using ( or not waste ) your existing cocoa , you have a few options . You can make a slurry of the cocoa powder . Get a container that can be sealed well and add maybe a teaspoon of the cocoa mix to 3 or 4 tablespoons of milk and shake it vigorously . Once it is well mixed , you can add more cocoa , and more milk as needed to keep it totally liquid . After it is fully incorporated , stir it into the rest of your milk and it should mix completely . This other method may not work for cold milk , but it is how I make smooth hot cocoa without having to make a slurry . I take a good quality cocoa and put it in a small bowl and then add granulated sugar - the ratio is n't vital ( and I like a sweet , very chocolatey cocoa ) , but it does have to be enough sugar to fully incorporate with the smooth , powdery cocoa . Basically I am looking to use the grains of sugar to break up the potential clumps of cocoa by having the mixture as thoroughly incorporated as possible , and then stirring very thoroughly as well . I prefer glass mugs so that I can see that I 've gotten all that 's fallen to the bottom . I hope this helps .
If you 're using plain cocoa powder , which does n't really dissolve , I would mix it with the coffee powder before adding to the water , and as long as the coffee powder will tolerate it , add it all to the water before heating . Mixing the two powders should help avoid clumps in the cocoa powder , and adding it early will give it time to release flavor into the water . You 'll still have to stir a bit to keep it from settling out , though ! If you 're using instant cocoa mix , which is sweetened and processed to make it dissolve evenly , you can just add it at the end . There 's no benefit from adding it earlier , and it 'll be easiest to stir and dissolve it in already hot water .
UHT ( Ultra High Temperature ) processing kills all the pathogens in the milk , so it can be conserved for a long time . However to make yogurt you add bacteria ( lactobacillus ) , so if there are n't other microorganism it should be even better .
I do n't think anything will be wrong with that milk . If it 's fresh milk , which I doubt , you should consume it in less than three days . If it 's pasteurized milk , which is much more likely , it 'll be unaffected . Signs of spoilage are a sour smell and sour taste . You should make a habit of always smelling your milk ( food ) before drinking ( eating ) it . If it does n't smell like you 'd expect , taste it . If it does n't taste like you 'd expect , ditch it . Milk is cultivated with lactobacillus , a bacteria that 's beneficial for us . So , even though milk may taste sour , it does n't mean that it 's undrinkable . In Holland , there 's sour-milk ( karnemelk ) , that some people consume ( I do n't like it , myself ) . Under the right circumstances , milk will turn into yogurt , thanks to the lactobacillus ... At any rate , if in doubt , throw it out .
Many of the commercial yoghurts use stabilizers like <URL> to prevent the yoghurt from separating during transport . All fruits naturally contain pectin ( some more than others ) , so one option , if you are making your own yoghurt at home , is to add some fruit to it . Here in the US , supermarkets carry small bags of dry pectin powder ; if you can get some of that , you could try adding it to your yoghurt . Another option is to initially heat your milk to 85 ° C for a half hour before cooling it and adding your yoghurt starter . This heating serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it gets rid of some of the excess moisture through evaporation , and ( 2 ) the heating will denature ( i.e. , stretch out and relax ) some of the milk 's proteins . Denatured proteins will be able retain more of the liquid that is in the final product . Finally , you can add powdered milk to the mix ( about 125ml of powdered milk per liter of milk ) . Powdered milk is basically just milk protein , so the added protein will help contain some of the final liquid .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
I just found the <URL> for it . The name of it is Bak Kwa ( Sweet BBQ Pork Jerky ) . Here 's the <URL> ( boy it 's easy to find things when you know the name ! ) . The recipe actually grind up the pork . They use about 70 % meat and 30 % fat . But according to the wikipedia entry there is also an expensive version where they slice of a solid piece of meat . Sugar and salt was originally used and then the meat was smoked ( this sounds really close to BBQing , which generally cooks the meat with smoke ... yummy tender ribs ) . These days , people make them in the oven at low heat . In the recipe , they put the minced mixture between two sheets of parchment paper , which probably keeps it moist and tender !
One question at a time ! ;-) Making evaporated milk from powdered milk ( " dry milk " ) : should be possible . Your suggestion is certainly reasonable , especially since <URL> is basically just " really dry <URL> " but I 've never tried it . Reading a bit on the above links describes subtle differences in the way that evaporated and powdered milk is produced , so of course your results might vary . You may even be able to get away with just mixing an extra powdered milk in water ( i.e. , without heating ) but perhaps you 'll need some heat to dissolve it fully ( or get the " caramelization " you speak of , but I ( personally ) associate caramelization more with sweetened condensed ) . There are also different forumulations of powdered milk ( " instant " versus " non-instant " for example ) , so your results may vary ( e.g. , how difficult it is to dissolve the powder in water ) depending on the type you use . I think both powdered and evaporated milk are generally non-fat ( skimmed ) so you should be okay with ( lack-of ) fat content also . EDIT : turns out that there are varieties of both that have fat or not ; be consistent or substitute further ! Thanks to @Stephen for pointing this out in his answer . Using <URL> in place of evaporated milk and ( reducing the ... ) sugar : should be possible . The opposite situation ( making sweetened condensed from evaporated ) is asked in <URL> . <URL> to add about 1.25 cups of sugar per cup of evaporated milk to yield sweetened condensed . Based on that , I 'd say that if you have at least 1.25 cups of sugar to reduce from the recipe for every cup of evaporated milk , that 's an option also . That seems like a lot of sugar ! Even more so than powdered versus evaporated , I think you 'll be able to tell more of a difference in evaporated versus sweetened condensed because of the caramelization of the sugar in the latter . Also , due to the sugar , sweetened condensed milk does n't require as much processing ( added sugar inhibits bacteria , <URL> ) . As far as reduction amount : I would n't think of it as a " reduce by X percent " , but rather as a reduce by an absolute amount ( volume or weight ) , factored by how much evaporated-to-sweetened is being exchanged . E.g. , if you have 2 cups of sweetened condensed in place of 2 cups of evaporated , reduce sugar by 2.5 cups . Does n't necessarily relate to 30 % reduction or whatever . Over in the Related section there are other questions about conversion to browse ! Good luck !
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
They 're generally good for adding some crunch , too , not just the flavor . A few things that come to mind : on top of a salad - my family does a roasted corn and black bean salad ; also probably good instead of croutons in salads where they 're a better flavor/style fit garnish on a soup - tortilla soup , sopa de elote ... as part of a breading for fish or chicken ( or anything else to bake or fry ) In general , anywhere you would use breadcrumbs , tortilla chip crumbles might find a place . If you 're afraid they 're too salty , you could always put dump them in a sieve and shake some of the really small bits out , leaving the more sizable bits of chip .
While adding milk may change the flavor slightly , such a small amount is used that it is not likely to be an extreme loss of flavor . Some people add a small amount of water . With a small amount , flavor loss should not be noticeable . And since most people scramble their eggs with butter or some other type of oil , there is a measure of fat included . ( Ref . to below quote . ) <URL> explains the effect and differences : Some recipes for scrambled eggs call for water or milk . Does this do anything for the eggs ? When eggs are scrambled , the mechanism that transforms the liquidy beaten eggs into a fluffy mound on the plate is protein coagulation -- the process by which , when exposed to heat , proteins unfold and then tangle up with one another and set , forming a latticed gel . The more tender the scrambled eggs , the more loosely the proteins have coagulated . Adding water to scrambled eggs dilutes the proteins a little , thereby raising the temperature at which they coagulate and making it harder to overcook the scramble . Water also increases the amount of steam , which puffs up the eggs , producing fluffy scrambled eggs . As for milk , it contains water but also fat , which coats the protein molecules so that they ca n't bind with one another as tightly . The key to scrambled eggs that are both fluffy and tender is a balance of water and fat . Also you can choose not to add anything and just whisk the eggs very well before cooking . This will incorporate air and result in fluffier eggs . In the end , it will be your choice . I would suggest trying all three ways and deciding which you like best .
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
Store cocoa powder in a dark , cool , dry place , sealed against vermin . Dark and cool both slow the process by which volatiles ( i.e. , flavor ) degrade . That said , do n't keep it in the fridge or freezer unless sealed airtight , because both types of chill-chests are relatively humid environments . Humidity promotes mold , even on cocoa . By the way , for future reference : When buying cocoa powder , note the manufacturer 's suggested use-by date . Cocoa powder should last about three years , properly stored . If the use-by date is much less than that , look for another container .
It 's fine as written . Combining vinegar with baking soda ( or any acid with any base ) is usually done in baking to produce gas , which can lighten the finished product . This is an icing , which is applied after the baking process ; it 's not set to capture air bubbles , so any effect would be largely temporary and more easily produced through beating . The vinegar here is intended to mimic the tangy flavor of real cream cheese . The lemon juice has the same effect , but apple cider vinegar adds a different mix of acids , better matching the flavor of the real thing .
Even if it is possible , it is a very , very bad idea as you do n't know what cultures or pathogens are in the already spoiled milk . Fermented dairy products should only be made from fresh milk in good condition -- and in most cases , that milk should be pasteurized while fresh absolutely as soon as possible from the source cows .
Apply heat . It 's not quite what you were looking for , but it 's probably the only solution that wo n't involve adding chemicals . Basically , a set amount of milk can hold a specific amount of chocolate in suspension . The hotter it is ( below boiling ) , the more it can hold . That 's why as the milk cools , the chocolate it can no longer hold falls to the bottom of the cup . The three options are : Keep it warm , by using a mug warmer ( like Catija suggested ) . If it does n't cool , it wo n't lose the ability to hold the chocolate . Start with less chocolate , that way , it wo n't be too much for the milk when it 's cooling . Obviously , this will affect the flavour . Add chemical additives , like emulsifiers , which will allow the milk to hold more chocolate . As I said at the beginning , I think the best option is the first one . Apply heat .
Moisten your hands with a clean , damp towel . This helps the rice not stick . Look at any sushi bar ; the chef will be frequently moistening their hands on such a towel .
Based on your edit to your question , and with some additional thought , I 'm going to answer this differently . Soured milk differs from what you called " spoiled " milk in only one way - what wild bacteria reproduced faster : bacteria with tasty waste products or bacteria with disgusting waste products . With that in mind the major potential problems with using this milk to make yogurt are : If the wild bacteria crowd out the yogurt culture If the yogurt culture is not able to work because the milk is too sour . In making homemade yogurt neither of these should be a problem . In making all yogurt - including yogurt made from raw milk in commercial settings - the milk is heated to 190F for some time to denature albumin proteins and to partially sterilize the milk so that the yogurt cultures will have the upper hand . This means that all yogurt has been pasteurized and the fact that the milk was purchased raw is a red herring . This will make problem # 1 above unlikely . Not heating the milk will leave you with @rumtscho 's answer - you can only guess what you might get by incubating it . As for problem # 2 . Milk proteins begin to coagulate at a Ph of about 4.6 . The target Ph for yogurt is usually 4.5 . When making yogurt , Streptococcus thermophilus brings the milk down to about 5.0 and Lactobacillus Acidophilus takes over and brings it down to 4.5 . Lactobacillus Acidophilus is active well below this Ph. Therefore , if your milk is not already thickened then it is , by definition , not too acidic for the yogurt culture to work . Unfortunately , as the commenter from your first link indicated , heat combined with acid will cause the milk to prematurely denature . If you milk is too sour already then heating it to 190F may cause the protein to precipitate out and you would have paneer ( sort of ) . I looked but was unable to find at what Ph milk proteins will denature at 190F . <URL> <URL> If you can strictly verify the handling of your raw milk to have confidence that it has not been contaminated with harmful bacteria , and if the milk has only slightly soured so that it can be heated without breaking , you should be able to successfully make yogurt out of it knowing that the texture might vary from that of your starter .
Rule of thumb , dairy in the north and coconut in southern recipes . ie korma would n't have coconut Indian yogurt is made with whole milk . As with western recipes , balancing the fat for good mouth-feel is important : yogurt can be a good choice when a larger quantity of liquid is called for . Cream works great when a finishing splash smooths out flavors without watering down Acidity is also important . Does the dish need a tangy component or a softening of acids ? A dish could use both : yogurt marinade then a bit of cream to finish . For richness and a hint of sweetness along with a wonderful aroma , coconut ca n't be beat but will be a discernable flavor in most curries . Many restaurants are making use of coconut where it is less than traditional with good results .
If your quartering of the chicken was done quickly then you are just asking how long you can keep a chicken in the fridge . <URL> Your 40 hours is fine .
end question
start question
Can I eat cheese which has been " infected " with blue cheese mold ?
Well , first off , mold grows from spores , and your Pyrenean cheese was likely already " contaminated " with Penicillium roqueforti , Penicillium glaucum , and Penicillium candidum spores at the cheese shop ( it 'd be surprising if the cheese shop is n't covered with them ! ) . So , if you keep it in a environment habitable to them , they will grow . I suspect that you 'd get the same results even if you put them in two different plastic containers . As to its safety , if it was indeed one of the used-in-food Penicillium molds , it should be safe to eat -- you can make sheep 's milk blue cheeses ( e.g. , roquefort ) after all . But the problem is that the same humid environment that encouraged the Penicillium colonization also encourage other molds -- many of which you do n't want to eat . Also , I 'm pretty sure there are blue-green molds you do n't want to eat .
Sprouted onions are perfectly safe to eat . If far advanced the texture may not be ideal ; yours does not sound very far advanced at all ( not even green . ) Considering you can eat green onions , there 's nothing to fear from onion sprouts .
They all seem to use different cheeses depending on the brand . The most consistent cheese is definitely mozzarella , which makes sense as it 's the default cheese on most pizzas . Second to that is some sort of hard grating cheese like Parmesan or Asiago ... which also makes sense as it 's a traditional pizza condiment . Other Italian cheeses also seem popular like fontina and provolone But non-Italian cheeses like cheddar certainly show up . Below are some examples . I do n't recommend any of these products , they just came up in web searches and specifically describe which four cheeses they use . Amy 's uses : Fontina , provolone , Parmesan , mozzarella : <URL> Frontera uses : Mozzarella , white cheddar , smoked provolone , asiago . <URL> California Pizza Kitchen uses : Mozzarella ( apparently more than one kind ) , fontina , gouda <URL> Lean Cuisine uses : low fat mozzarella , Parmesan , asiago , romano <URL>
Continuing to age a " nice " block of Parmesan is not going to do anything for you . It has already aged for over year and has changed pretty much all it 's going to . Similarly aging cheap , canned , Parmesan-like product that is aged only a month to cut costs will also not be good because it has too much surface area and will oxidize . It is n't very good to start with of course . Where this will work very well is with cheap , young cheese . Buy an inexpensive block of young cheddar that does n't have any crazy additives . Cover it and let it sit in the fridge for a month ( or more ) . The bacteria in the cheese will continue to munch on available lactose and turn it into lactic acid . If you ever see mold wipe it off with a paper towel and a little vinegar . At the end of that time you will have a much sharper and more valuable block of cheese . You 've traded your time for money which is the trade-off cheese manufacturers always make .
Wikipedia , as well as all 12 serbian recipes I found specify full-fat white brine cheese ( cow or sheep milk ) . Only one of them called for a type of cream in addition to the cheese . In Western Europe , Turkish groceries can carry typical Balkan white brine cheese . If you do n't have access to one , buy feta . Cow and sheep cheese are considered substitutes in Balkan cuisine - the cooks are aware that they have a difference in flavor , but they use what they have at hand , similar to the way that an apple recipe will call for crisp apples , but wo n't specify Pink Crisp or Elstar apples . So both cow and sheep feta will do in principle . But I have noticed that supermarkets sometimes carry expensive real Greek feta , which is high quality , and only cheap western-made cow feta-style cheese , which is of inferior quality and has a rubber texture . If you are not sure of the quality , go for the real imported feta ( which will be sheep ) , not the feta-style .
It is almost certainly safe unless it was left out at warm temperatures to spoil , or has molded , or otherwise spoiled in a manner not directly related to being uncovered . It may , however , be unpalatable due to : Drying out Picking up flavors or odors from other items in the refrigerator Since you are eating it relatively quickly , if you are not experiencing these issues , your practice should be just fine . My own personal preferred method is to put my cheese chunks in a zip lock type bag , which substantially cuts down on the drying , especially for moister cheeses like mozzarella or semi-firm cheddar .
The easiest solution is to use different cheeses . Most commercial pizzerias , like Domino 's or Pizza Hut do not use expensive cheeses like Parmesean or fresh mozzerella ... they use crappy cheese designed to be stretchy and to stay that way when warm instead of hot . In general , they use part-skim mozzarella , which is often sold pre-shredded and in hard blocks like you 'd find cheddars . This is addressed in another answer , <URL> . Hard cheeses like Parmesan are unlikely to melt at all and , when they do , they will firm up quickly as they lose heat . You should rarely expect a hard cheese to melt well . Most of them do n't . They also lose a lot of oils when they melt , causing unsightly separation . They 're great for a burst of salty cheese flavor but they wo n't behave like Domino 's cheese . This is why it 's common to top a completed pizza with shredded Parmesan but you would n't want to use it as your primary base cheese for the unbaked pizza . Fresh cheeses like ricotta and mozzarella have the opposite problem . Their high moisture content will often make pizza unappetizingly <URL> . In contrast , the part skim mozzarella used in pizzerias is specifically chosen because it has low water content . Check out the two questions linked here for a ton more info . You should consider doing some research into which <URL> as opposed that separate into an gross mess . Note , this list , like many others includes Asiago but it 's important to notice that the list refers specifically to fresh Asiago , not the Parmesan-like aged sibling .
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
You can learn a lot from the rind of a cheese . <URL> There are three types of rind : Bloomy , washed , and natural . While I do n't think it is technically a rind I would also list waxed as a category . Bloomy rinds are formed when molds and such that grew during the cheese aging are smashed flat . Usually such cheeses will have unique textures because of the action of the mold . Think of the creaminess of brie as an example . The rind is edible if it is in good condition . Washed - the cheese is wiped with vinegar or similar while it ages . Natural - The top layer of the cheese is allowed to dry as the cheese ages . Parmesan is a good example of this . Waxed - Wax is applied to inhibit drying and mold growth . It is common with many semi firm to firm cheeses and does n't tell you much except the favorite color of the cheese marketing people . Cheddar is almost always waxed . Some cheeses do n't have a rind at all - this generally means that they were n't aged . Cream cheese , queso fresco are examples . Mozarella and feta are both brined and so do n't have rinds . Of course - it is a good thing when you can see any rind at all as odds are good that the cheese was n't mass produced for an undiscriminating clientele .
My guess is that you do n't have real cheese in your sandwich . I 've seen this before with things called cheese that were really types of <URL> . It happened when then product was exposed to moisture that it seemed to absorb , which then caused it to turn soggy and glue-like . If you 'd have said that you had tomato in your sandwich , I 'd have been sure this was what was going on .
There are <URL> on the market that come with a lot of solids , and it 's perfectly normal for those to have all kinds of chunky weirdness if they 've sat for a little while . Wine vinegar has a wide range of normal behaviour : it can get <URL> * or <URL> , and that 's normal . Even filtered vinegar can develop cloudiness and still be perfectly safe . If your distilled vinegar gets cloudy , I 'd worry . That should n't happen . Still , foreign bacteria do NOT grow well in vinegar . If your distilled vinegar is growing something , you probably know why . <URL> , unless you 're storing it outside on your deck , or something . If you brew your own , your mileage may vary . * This is often a result of leaving live bacteria ( <URL> ) in the vinegar . <URL> , like live yoghurt cultures . There is n't much data either way , but it 's certainly not harmful .
Candle wax and cheese wax are quite different . Candle wax is very stiff . If it were flexible , you 'd get bendy candles . Cheese wax has additional ingredients to keep it <URL> and prevent it from becoming brittle : This wax is pliable and will not become brittle as will pure paraffin wax . It also has food-grade dyes . Remember that candle wax is generally not designed to touch food . As to brining . The instructions on the About Waxing tab mentions that it 's important to clean cheese before waxing to prevent mold growth : Before the cheese can be waxed , the mold needs to be removed . This can be done with a brine wash or vinegar wash . Both high acid and high salt will discourage mold from growing . I prefer the brine wash with ~ 1 tsp salt to a cup of cool water . As you can see in the photos , the mold wipes away easily . Photo at left shows the clean cheese ready for waxing . The cheese will dry and be ready for waxing in an hour or two .
Properly wrapped , the extra insulation would not have been the cause of higher than normal ice formation ( freezer burn ) . What I suspect might have happened here is that putting it outside in the cold caused all of the steam to condense on the surface of your mac &amp; cheese , resulting in you bagging damper than usual mac &amp; cheese .
<URL> says it 's not air and water : the squeakiness is caused by rubbing against the network of protein strands in the curds , and the squeakiness fades over time because the protein network deteriorates . With respect to microwaving , it says : The reason microwaving helps reinvigorate some of the squeakiness is that the heat starts to alter the amount of moisture trapped inside the curds and creates another bout of hydrolysis , dropping more negatively charged hydrogen ions from casein proteins while they bind to the internal heating water . I 'm inclined to believe this because it explains why cheese curds are different from , say , cheese , and it 's a more detailed explanation consistent with the article cited in Laura 's answer ( saying the protein networks are more elastic when fresh ) , which also explains the effect of the microwave !
Harold McGee , in On Food and Cooking , is very detailed in his explanation of how cheese " works " . He describes three stages . In the first stage , lactic acid bacteria convert milk sugar into lactic acid . In the second stage , which overlaps with the first one , rennet ( an extract of calf stomach - or , to be more precise , chymosin , a protein found in this extract and now also obtainable from yeasts and the like ) curdles the casein proteins and watery whey is drained from the concentrated curds . And finally , in the third stage , the cheese ripens , and a whole host of different enzymes do all sorts of things to flavour and texture . According to McGee , Acid and Rennet form very different kinds of curd structures -- acid a fine , fragile gel , rennet a coarse but robust , rubbery one -- so their relative contributions , and how quickly they act , help determine the ultimate texture of the cheese . He goes on to describe how mostly acid coagulation leads to softer cheeses and mostly rennet-based coagulation leads to firmer curds and harder cheeses . Draining of the whey also strongly affects the final texture , as Sobachatina points out in <URL> . Pressing firmly expels much whey and thus leads to a harder cheese ; softer cheeses are just allowed to drain some whey by gravity . But there 's another important factor here : heat . Some cheeses are " cooked " in their whey at this stage , to a temperature as high as 55C ( 130F ) for a rock-hard Parmesan or about 38C ( 100F ) for a somewhat softer Tommes , and this expels even more whey from the curd particles ( and , of course , also affects flavour ) . At this stage , salt is also added . Salt draws some moisture out of the curds as well and is a catalyst for the denaturing of casein , thus reinforcing the protein structure . McGee also discusses aging of cheese at some length , but he does n't really touch on the effect of aging on the structure of cheese . That effect is certainly there ; a very young Gouda cheese is almost as soft as a Camembert , whereas a very old one gets close to Parmesan hardness ( if it does n't crumble to dust ) . I imagine that this is due to some moisture escaping the cheese , but also due to the fact that the protein networks keep growing more and more interconnected as the cheese ripens .
I use bleach to remove mold and mildew stains from my bathroom and while the process would be gross , I would think that once thoroughly washed the bleach would n't cause any harmful effects to the pan or to future snacking humans .
Yes you can and it is . Google <URL> and you will find plenty of restaurants that actually have it on the menu , like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . I doubt that a restaurant would ( be allowed to ) have it on the menu if it 's unsafe to eat .
According to the <URL> Domino 's uses a blend of Mozzarella , American , Cheddar , Feta , Parmesan , and Provolone Cheeses . Somebody , apparently , with similar concerns asked Domino 's and <URL> : excerpt from letter , emphasis added : Domino 's Pizza Diced Cheese for Pizza is a specially produced cheese made exclusively for our use . It is a natural dairy product , produced from cultured , pasteurized milk , rennet ; and salts of calcium and/or sodium . The type of rennet used in the production of this cheese is restricted to a microbial-based rennet or a genetically-engineered rennet . Animal derived rennets will not be allowed . As far as the other cheeses ( Cheddar , Parmesan , Provolone , etc. ) , Domino 's does not specify the source of rennet used in these products . They may or may not contain animal rennet . This depends on the supplier 's current source and is always subject to change without notification to Domino 's Pizza .
Hard , aged cheeses like cheddar and Parmesan are fine to freeze , particularly if you 're going to be melting them when you get around to using them anyway . Freezing causes ice particles to break up the molecules of the cheese , and when they thaw , they leave holes in what was ( prior to freezing ) a pretty smooth cheese . So you might notice if you freeze blocks of cheese , they are more crumbly when you unfreeze them than they were when you bought them . The cheeses you 're working with should be fine if stored properly , but softer / creamier cheeses ( brie , harvarti , etc. ) might become somewhat unpleasant if you freeze them . As far as storage is concerned , you can actually do one of two things : Grate the cheese before you freeze it . All you need to do for this method is grate your cheese and put it in a ziploc freezer bag ( thicker than a regular zip-top bag ) . Just make sure to squeeze the air out before sealing , and seal it well . Freeze the cheese in blocks . Wrap them in plastic wrap and then put then in a ziploc bag , and you should be all set ; it 'll keep for 4-6 months . ( <URL> ) No matter which method you use , you may notice a slight change in texture . Make sure you thaw the cheese before using it . ( Though I 've put frozen shredded mozzarella on pizza and frozen shredded Mexican cheese blend - a blend of cheddar , monterey jack , queso blanco and asadero - on tacos and not had any trouble . )
It 's a personal preference . It 's certainly edible , and it wo n't hurt you . I find the texture a little weird . Generally you can eat the rind of almost any cheese . However , make sure you 're not mistaking a wax coating for rind .
end question
start question
What makes bread mold grow ; light , air or both ?
Mold grows best in warm , moist conditions . It 's a fungus , not a plant ; light has nothing to do with it . Fresh air does n't really make it grow either , but circulating air does help reduce condensation , depriving mold of moisture . So you really do n't want to seal a breadbox - that 'll just help create a nice moist environment for the mold to grow in . Breadboxes are really just about keeping other pests away from your bread , while still being able to keep it at room temperature . ( It goes stale faster in the fridge . ) If you 're worried about mold growth , you probably just want to freeze some of the bread .
what i used to do for popping whole cubes is-take out the ice tray from freezer . Put it under running tap of normal temp water ( for 2-4 secs ) from both sides of ice tray , from top and bottom back of ice tray . then twist the trays to remove ice . It pops out shattered ice less frequently .
The problem is that there are different types of olive oil that are used for dramatically different purposes . A high quality ' cold pressed extra virgin ' oil often has fruity notes that are destroyed when you heat it , but is great for drizzling over things at the last minute , or cold applications such as salad dressings ... but note that the US labeling laws are lax , so something labeled as ' extra virgin ' in the US may not qualify as such in Europe . For most cooking , I use a good grade olive oil ( ' virgin ' , but not ' extra virgin ' ) for cooking with , not the extremely expensive stuff . For frying , there 's ' extra light ' olive oil which has a higher smoke point but little to no flavor on its own . It 's refined to such a point that you might be better off just going with any neutral flavored oil ( canola/rape , soy , corn , etc. ) Price depends on a lot of things , and a lot of it 's marketing and worthless -- if you can , I 'd look for other signs of quality ... like if there 's a packing date . Older oil is more likely to have deteriorated , and in a worst case , have gone rancid . ( more likely if it 's in a clear glass bottle ... if you 're buying large amounts of oil , keep it out of sunlight , or even better , buy it in a can ) Note that packing dates can also be cheated -- they might press the oil , then hold it for months before it 's actually bottled for sale . Also beware of ' blended oils ' . This is when they cut olive oil with something less expensive , but still try to pass it off as ' olive oil ' . ' Imported from Italy ' is another suspect label , as it might be foreign olives that were sent to Italy before being imported . ( but there 's nothing wrong with non-Italian olives ... the Greeks and Spanish make some great olive oils , and we 're starting to see more <URL> ) . ... Also note that olive oil can be classified like wines -- some companies might press a single variety of olive ( eg , Kalamata , Castelvetrano ) , which can have dramatically different flavors . They might be fruity , grassy , buttery , or even peppery . Regions can also have an impact , as some areas press olives while green , and others wait until they 're black . I wo n't get into these , as that 's more a matter of personal taste .
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
There is no single answer to this question . Instead , a number of factors ( not including the weather ) affect the perceived tenderness or moistness of a steak or other cut of meat . Overview There are two major factors that effect the perceived moistness of a steak or other cut of meat : The amount of connective tissue . The more connective tissue the meat has , the tougher and chewier it will be , at least until the collagen that composes the connective tissue is converted to gelatin The temperature to which the cut is cooked . The higher the temperature , up to about 165 F , the more different types of proteins are denatured and coagulated , squeezing out moisture , leading to a dryer , tougher mouth feel . Additionally , some minor factors contribute to or enhance perceived tenderness or moistness : Cutting the meat against the grain enhances the perception of tenderness . Marinating in an acid or enzymatically active marinade may enhance tenderness Mechanically processing , cutting , or pounding the meat ( as in a cube steak ) to disrupt its fibers can enhance tenderness . Connective Tissue The more an animal uses a muscle , the more connective tissue that muscle will contain . For example , the shoulder of the animal is usually worked very hard ( it has to keep the animal standing up ) for pigs and cows , so it has a low of connective tissue . Other muscles are used rarely , such as the tenderloin , and do n't develop very much connective tissue . The connective tissue is composed of a protein called collagen , which is tough and rubbery , and makes cuts high in it seem much tougher than those which are not . However , with certain types of cooking , collagen can be converted to gelatin , and convert from being tough to being unctuous and soft . Temperature As the temperature in the steak rises , more and more proteins tighten and denature , squeezing out moisture , resulting in a drier , tougher mouth feel . Various groups of proteins denature at different temperatures , so the higher the internal temperature , the more moistness will be squeezed out , and the drier and tougher the steak will seem . By the time the cut reaches about 165 F , all of the proteins are denatured , and it is fully well done , and as tough as it will be . According to <URL> : 122 ° F - Myosin protein in mammal meat begins to denature . 130-135 ° F - Target temp for medium rare lamb chops and beef steaks , the temperature at which they are at optimum tenderness , flavor , and juiciness . 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . 140 ° F - Collagens begin to contract and squeeze juice from within muscle fibers into the spaces between the fibers and out to the surface . 140 ° F - Myoglobin denatures rapidly and red or pink juices begin to turn clear or tan and bead up on the surface . 150 ° F - Actin protein begins to denature making meat tougher and drier . 155 ° F - Well done for most meats . Most ( but not all ) bacteria killed in less than 30 seconds but spores can survive to much higher temps . High Connective Tissue Cuts When cuts are high in connective tissue , the same toughening and drying that occurs in low connective cuts happens as the internal temperature rises to about 165 F. However , starting at about 170-180 F , a new process begins to engage : the collagen ( the very protein that made these cuts tougher to start with ) begins to transform in the presense of water into gelatin , a different protein . The gelatin lubricates the meat , and gives it a newly unctuous and moist mouth-feel , despite being very well done . It takes time for gelatin conversion to occur : it is not enough to simply bring the internal temperature to 180 F . It has to stay there for several hours for the conversion to have enough time to take place . This gelatin conversion is what makes slow cooking methods like braising and barbecuing so effective for tough cuts of meat . They are cooked until quite well done ( when they would be extremely tough ) , but then the conversion of the collagen to gelatin makes them much softer , and unctuous , so that they are again perceived as moist and tender . Sadly , it will not work on cuts that were fairly tender to begin with , as there is little collagen to convert to gelatin . Slicing Against the Grain Additionally , while a minor factor , the way the meat is cut into bite sized portions also effects the perception of toughness . Muscles are bundles of cells that are aligned in the same direction , like a bundle of straws . They are very , very strong in the direction that the fibers align ( along the straws ) , but not as strong against that direction ( across the straws ) . If sliced against the direction of the grain of the meat , so that the straws are cut in half , the the impression is that the meat is more tender . For example , in fajitas , the traditional flank steak or skirt steak is cooked to no more than medium rare to medium ( to minimize the toughness
As Jefromi already mentioned in a comment , the sandwich bread common in the Western part of the world is soft and often sweet , ready to eat . When you search online for <URL> you will only get images of roasted bread with various fillings . I think the bread you refer to is in a half baked form , which you can find in supermarkets here sometimes too : it is used here mostly for baked sandwiches with cheese . The bread is only ready when going through another baking cycle .
Since I could see this being a cooking/food science question if you really wanted to play with this property of liquids in drinks , perhaps a quick answer is in order . This really would be quite well-suited to the physics stackexchange , though - this is a concept that 's quite describable by physics . To follow up on Sobachatina 's comment , the property you 're in fact looking for is surface tension ( which is reduced by surfactants like detergent ) . If you want to compare liquids , be they water , water + detergent , milk ( water + stuff ) , or even alcohol or oil , you just want to compare their surface tensions . Surface tension is in fact a measurable quantity , with dimensions of force per length . There are a couple of equivalent definitions : when increasing the area of the surface by a small amount , the amount of work ( energy ) required per area increase ; or when the surface is bounded by a line ( imagine a bubble film and string ) , the amount of force on that line per length . You should note that surface tension depends on the fluids on both sides of the surface . Most commonly we talk about surface tension of an arbitrary liquid against air , but surface tension against glass , plastic , or metal is commonly visible in your vessels and utensils , and surface tension between various fluids is of course visible when you try something like mixing oil and water . As for actual examples , Wikipedia has a <URL> with surface tensions of various fluids against air . Among them are a few potentially relevant for cooking : acetic acid + water ( though stronger than normal vinegar ) , ethanol + water , a very concentrated sucrose solution , and water . Note that the addition of alcohol or acetic acid substantially reduces surface tension of water ! If anyone can follow up with more data on surface tension of liquids commonly seen in cooking , I 'd be very interested ! It 's also possible to measure surface tension at home , though I 've never done it , and I 'm not sure how accurate you could get .
There are three courses of action for producing sourdough with a bread machine : Use the bread machine just for mixing dough , then rise and bake it separately . This will produce the best result , defined as the best texture and strongest sourdough flavor . In this case , you get to monitor the progress of the sourdough as it is rising , which gives you better control over the results . With this course , make sure to start preheating your oven early , because it has to be fully ready when the dough is . It 's heartbreaking to watch helplessly as beautiful sourdough loaves collapse while your oven preheats . Also , you can throw a handful of icecubes into the oven a minute or two before the bread , to get steam , which gives maximum oven spring and a softer crust . This helps prevent the common problem of dense sourdough . Do a " cheater " sourdough that incorporates both yeast and sourdough starter . This is the most hands-off approach , but it wo n't yield as strong a sourdough flavor results as option one . Basically , you take a standard bread recipe that uses a poolish preferment , and you replace the poolish with equivalent-hydration sourdough starter , but retain the yeast . So , you 're getting leavening primarily from the yeast , but flavor from the sourdough . Up to half the flour can come from the starter . You can gradually reduce the yeast amounts and increase rise time until it 's approaching a true sourdough . See recipe below ! Do true sourdough with a bread machine that allows you to program VERY long rise/proofing times . This is the worst option , because sourdough rise times vary greatly , even with the same starter . The leavening power of starters also varies from almost as fast as instant yeast , to over 12 hours for a full rise . I think you 'll have a hard time finding a bread maker that can be programmed for the longest times , and because you 're relying on a fixed timer , the dough will inevitably be either under-risen or collapsing . Sourdough can go from under-risen to over-risen and collapsing in as little as 30 minutes . Cheater Sourdough Recipe derived from Pain Sur Poolish : Ingredients : 425g/15 oz sourdough starter , fed the night before with equal volumes all purpose flour and water ( or about 6.7 oz flour per 8 oz water ) 227g/8 oz bread ( " Strong " ) flour 227g/8 oz all purpose flour 200 g/7 oz warm water 1 tsp instant yeast ( SAF Red Label ) 2 tsp salt Optional : 1 tsp diastatic malt powder Optional : 1/4 cup dry milk powder Procedure : Mix together dry ingredients , then mix in wet ingredients until incorporated . Knead about 8-10 minutes on stand mixer speed 2 , or until the dough is soft and stretchy . It should be a little wet , but not too much . Rise dough for ~ 45 min-1 .5 hours , or until doubled . If using a bread machine , rise an extra 30 minutes or so , and skip to step 9 . If using oven : start preheating to 500F/260C with a pizza stone in the lower rack Divide dough in half , and shape into two loaves , making sure not to handle too much as this will remove gas . If using oven : coat an inverted aluminum 1/2 sheet pan with pan spray and corn meal , then transfer loaves to pan . Cover with plastic wrap with the bottom coated in pan spray . Proof bread 45 minutes to 1 hour , until it stops rising and a finger leaves a dent in the loaf . If using oven : throw a handful of ice cubes into the oven to generate steam , then slash the loaves and load into oven . In oven : Bake @ 500F/260C for 5 minutes , then reduce heat to 435F/225C and bake for a further 15 minutes . In bread machine : bake at about 375F/190C for about 30 minutes . If not using diastatic malt , crust may still be somewhat pale . This recipe ( with slight modifications ) is now my standard bread , which I bake frequently . I 'm still tweaking the exact time to bake at the reduced temperature ; if the top is browning excessively but the interior is underdone , it may help to flip the loves over for the last few minutes of cooking .
The author of this recipe probably happens to keep in his pantry ( or more professionally speaking , dry store ) just those two types of flour , and so has specified a mix to get a mid-level flour with moderate protein levels , tailored to his preferences . Given that the author is Jacques Torres , this is almost certainly a scaled down translation of a professional recipe , where that is not an uncommon practice ( the very odd measurements support the idea of scaling and rounding ; the weird flour measurements are probably the closest volume equivalent to a weight based scaled recipe ) . Two commercial varieties ( all purpose , and the less common pastry flour ) also have protein levels in between cake flour and bread flour , with pastry flour being somewhere between cake flour and all purpose , typically . If you happen to have all purpose ( and you almost certainly do ) I would suggest using it in the recipe for the total of both specialty flours . Very few cookie recipes are so fussy that it will actually matter very much .
As I understand it , when you combine high heat and vegetable oil you get a fairly stable polymer ( much like a plastic or resin ) . The polymer bonds with the surface ( which is porous ) , and results in robust surface . This is what we use to season cast iron cookware , but it 's less desirable on stainless and other lighter colour hardware . You can prevent the coating from forming by never allowing he oil to maintain a high temperature for long periods by itself . Keeping food in contact with the pan will both help keep the temperature down , and reduce the chance of the oil bonding with the steel . Cleaning the oil off once it 's formed is usually pretty simple : add water ( or soda water ) and heat for 10-15 minutes . Often the oil will wipe out ( or need mild scrubbing with an appropriate scrubbing pad ) . You should not have to use steel wool ( or a caustic cleaner ) , both of which can damage the smooth surface of many pans .
A mother culture is sometimes known as a starter dough and is a fermenting dough that is used to ' start ' the fermentation process in the bread you are going to make by adding a bit of the starter dough to the dough you are making . Mainly sourdough I think , but I believe you can use different mothers for different breads . The starter dough is ' fed ' flour and water to keep it alive and going , and then used everyday to make the days bread . The mother can then be kept going for many years and gives the bread made using it a distinctive flavour . At least that 's my understanding , I 'm hoping to get a more detailed picture from this and the answer to my question ... Some information <URL> and also on <URL>
I 'm not sure exactly what you 're asking - whether you want brands of sour cream whose reduced-fat version is as tasty as the full-fat version , or if you want to substitute something else in place of sour cream . For the latter , it depends somewhat on what you 're using it for . I find that in a lot of dips , substituting plain lowfat or fat-free yogurt works fine . It might result in a thinner consistency than if you use sour cream , but it generally works . If you 're looking for a substitute that has the consistency of sour cream , try lowfat or fat-free Greek yogurt . It 's thicker than regular yogurt and much closer to sour cream 's consistency . I sometimes do this is with dips or when baking ( Greek yogurt works very well as a substitute for sour cream in sour cream coffee cakes , for example ) . Substitutes typically work well when the sour cream flavor is n't all that important anyway . In this case , you could use the light or fat-free versions of sour cream and probably not notice much of a flavor difference . If you 're looking to replace sour cream as a condiment , however ( on tacos , burritos , or as a topping for soup ) , you 'll definitely notice a different taste if you use regular or Greek yogurt . For many things , a yogurt substitution still works ; it just tastes different . As far as brands of lowfat or fat-free sour cream that taste as good as the full-fat versions , that 's an extremely subjective question and would probably be limited based on your locations . As such , it 's not a very good fit for this site .
In general , unless the book or recipe specifically states something different , " salt " is assumed to mean " table salt " . If a recipe were to call for kosher salt or pretzel salt ( like as a topping for the loaves ) it would specifically call that out especially .
Breads get their structure from glutens -- a type of protein formed by the combination of glutenin with gliaten . Kneading and resting the dough helps the formation of glutens -- I assume by shifting glutenin and gliatin molecules around , this increases the odds of bindings occurring . Oils can bind to glutenin and gliatin and inhibit these reactions , so fats -- oils and butter -- definitely play a role in the texture control . It prevents the dough from getting too elastic , which controls texture . This elasticity change would also change the maximum air bubble size . Altering resting times and yeast quantity also change these , but trading off for a different flavor . Oil may play other roles , but these are what I recall reading about off the top of my head . Yes , it does contribute to flavor as well .
The existing answers already explain why yeast and baking powder wo n't work together . But even if they did , you would n't have a reason to use them . You seem to think that fluffiness depends on the amount of gas produced by the leaveners . In fact , it depends on both the gas and the ability of the dough to trap that gas . If you produce too much gas ( no matter whether through yeast or through baking powder ) , then the fluffiness will be less than when using the optimal amount of leavener . This happens because your dough can not hold the gas and the bubbles break , resulting in the dough deflating like a punctured tire . So even if combining two leaveners would have resulted in more " blowing big " action ( which it does n't , see the other answers ) , you would not end up with a fluffier end product . If you want fluffy muffins , you have to use a recipe and a technique which is best capable of retaining the gas produced by the baking powder . The amount of gas production is not a bottleneck .
The US Code of Federal Regulations ( 21 CFR 101.4 ) states that ingredients must be listed in descending order of predominance based on weight . The following exception is made in 21 CFR 101.4 ( 2 ) : The descending order of predominance requirements of paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) of this section do not apply to ingredients present in amounts of 2 percent or less by weight when a listing of these ingredients is placed at the end of the ingredient statement following an appropriate quantifying statement , e.g. , " Contains __ percent or less of _ " or " Less than _ percent of __ . " The blank percentage within the quantifying statement shall be filled in with a threshold level of 2 percent , or , if desired , 1.5 percent , 1.0 percent , or 0.5 percent , as appropriate . No ingredient to which the quantifying phrase applies may be present in an amount greater than the stated threshold . Thus , each ingredient is 2 % or less of the total weight . They are also exempt from the order by weight requirement . The manufacturer is free to order the subset of < 2 % ingredients however they please . Source : <URL>
Sugar has a few effects in bread : It helps make it soft and tender by absorbing some of the water and slowing down the formation of gluten strands . It feeds the yeast , resulting in a faster rise . Via caramelisation , it aids in the browning of the crust . It acts as a preservative , keeping the bread fresher for longer ( though 1tbsp probably does n't make a lot of difference ) . It does have some effect on the flavour .
Heavy Whipping Cream ( at least in the States I believe ) has a fat content of 36 % or greater . Light Cream generally sits between 30 % and 36 % . Heavier cream generally will have a " richer " taste . Light Cream will also not whip quite as thick and not hold it 's form as well . That said , for most cases , I 've successfully managed to use them interchangeably . I guess it might make a difference if you were doing something where holding a rigid structure for extended periods of time was important . Note : What various grades of cream/dairy are called varies by region ... Here in Canada we have Whipping Cream 35 % and Heavy Cream ~ 40 % . If I were somewhere where " Light Whipping Cream " sat closer to 30 % , I might grab something a little higher . <URL> <URL>
Admittedly I have only stored my starter in a glass jar , but I would n't want anything else . You should look for a size that is neither too large , nor too small . It should comfortably hold your sourdough starter when you are simply feeding it - I usually store 200g of starter , at 100 % hydration ( 100g flour , 100g water ) or thereabouts . However , when actually making sourdough starter you make more - perhaps 400g or so , depending on how much bread you are making , plus you want to have something left to restart your bread . A typical recipe might call for 20 % starter , so 200g for a kilo loaf . The other solution is to of course have two separate jars , and only use both when doubling for bread . When I say it must be able to hold that much , I mean that it will have to hold it fully risen , which means around 2x to 2.5 x of the original size . In addition , narrow and high is better than low and wide , since it makes it easier to tell how much it rises . Also , you will want a wide opening , so that you can easily clean it . As for covering it , I just use a sheet of plastic . Just take care not to get it gooey . It will hold in the moisture so the sourdough does n't dry out , but wo n't trap the carbon dioxide . Good luck
I do n't know much of the science behind the super-soft bread on supermarket shelves , but I can give some insight into the history that led to it becoming so ubiquitous in the US . The idea that whiter breads are classier than darker breads goes all the way back to the 5th century BC . The belief that white bread was superior to dark bread , a common theme in many cultures over the ages , was already taking hold in Greece by the 5th century BC . Darker , denser breads made from barley or rye were the breads of the poor . White breads were believed to be pure , more refined , more cultured . They cost more too , since growing wheat was more labor-intensive than other grains . And on top of that , removing the bran and the germ to make wheat flour white instead of brown increased the work and the cost still further . Interestingly , up until the 17th century there were even separate baker 's guilds for bakers of white breads and brown breads . This prejudice against darker breads generally continued all the way until the 1960 's , when growing health consciousness finally seemed to turn the tide . From <URL> The desire for soft came a bit later ( same source ) : I 've often wondered why bread baking in this country-descended as it is from the great European traditions-turned so ... let 's say ... soft . The decline of good bread baking may have had its roots in the 18th century . The introduction of pan baking made bread softer and puffier . In the 19th century a distaste for " sourness " ( ironically the same " sourness " that makes San Francisco sourdough and other sourdoughs so great ) led to the introduction of baking soda to bread , which made it puffier still . In the 1870 's industrial milling techniques were introduced . Flour became whiter and whiter , and " deader " - bakers began adding sugar to get yeasts to react as they had in the past , and bread got puffier still . Bread continued to get sweeter and puffier , until finally in the 1920 's , we reached the pinnacle of puffiness-Wonder Bread . It 's with the birth of Wonder Bread things really take a turn for the insiped . Did you know you can squeeze an entire loaf into a ball the size of a tennis ball ? I once know a guy who never missed an opportunity to show off that little stupid-human-trick ... but I digress ... Alexander Taggart , the founder of Wonder Bread , was a marketing genius . In the 1890s he sold the first company that he had built to The United States Baking Company and he accepted stock in The United States Baking Company as a part of the purchase price . The United States Baking Company subsequently became a part of the National Biscuit Company . You might know that company by another name , Nabisco . So at this point he owned a chunk of Nabisco , but he sold that to start another baking company , the Taggart Baking Company , out of Indianapolis , Indiana . At first he zeroed in on the large number of German immigrants in the area , and prior to WWI he advertised heavily in German language newspapers using a Puritan logo : From <URL> This was a good time to own a baking company in the USA . Between the start of the century and the end of WWI , the market was burgeoning . between 1899 and 1919 the value of bread and bakery products produced in Indiana grew 620 % . Americans were rapidly growing richer , and they could afford to replace labor-intensive homemade goods with manufactured alternatives . - <URL> But events of the era were causing a shift in the attitudes of American consumers . The war and its aftermath caused a tremendous amount of discrimination against German immigrants , and in Indiana , Germans were plentiful enough that there was a significant backlash to those attitudes . To make matters worse , Protestants in Indiana were banding together against Catholics , and the KKK was getting hugely powerful in state politics ( an interesting bit of history in its own right <URL> ) . Our marketing genius knew just how to capitalize on the social unrest . In 1921 the Taggart Company had a new wrapping technique that could keep bread fresh for several days , and set about to rebrand the product.The new Taggart bread would n't carry religious or ethnic connotations that could hinder it 's sales , or even falsely identify itself with the work of Puritan mothers -- it was going to be better . It was going to be from the mechanized world of the future , a utopian world with factories suspended from the clouds by the thread of their smoke ; bridges with the leap of gymnasts ... and the gliding flight of aeroplanes whose propellers sound like the flapping of a flag and the applause of enthusiastic crowds -- a vision outlined in Filippo Marinetti 's Futurist Manifesto , published in 1909 . The new Wonder Bread did n't suggest hearth and home . On the contrary , the unnaturally vibrant colors of the logo and visual purity of this new , virgin white , 1.5 pound loaf perfectly evoked the otherworldliness of the enormous manufacturing system that was seen as America 's future . - <URL> It was the righ
end question
start question
Can I substitute a beef round rump roast for brisket ?
Pretty much no , they are totally non-alike . The beauty of brisket is that it is full of connective tissue and other odd stuff that translates to succulence when cooked low and slow . Round is pretty much the opposite , it has very little in the way of interest .
Saltpeter is potassium nitrate , which does not directly cure meats . Bacteria convert nitrate into nitrite , which is the real preservative . Saltpeter can be replaced by a smaller amount of nitrite to get the same curing effect ( most commercial cured meats do this ) , though a prolonged cure that converts nitrate into nitrite can develop more flavor . Tender Quick is not a direct substitute because it contains mostly salt . I 've heard that you can replace the salt in your recipe with Tender Quick , and drop the saltpeter , and have a success . You would have better luck finding a recipe that was meant to use Tender Quick , though . It is definitely possible to buy ( food-grade ! ) saltpeter . I would check online , or at specialty stores . It 's a little more difficult than picking it up at your local grocery store , of course . ( Chemistry lesson , courtesy of McGee : nitrate ( NO3 ) is converted to nitrite ( NO2 ) , which then reacts to form nitric oxide ( NO ) , which bonds to myoglobin in the meat , which turns it pink and prevents oxidation . Nitric oxide is also present in smoke , which gives that " pink ring " around the outside of smoked meats . )
You can get extremely edible results , which is good enough for me . The smoke-ring may be lacking from a competition grade result , but the flavour will be fine . Presume you have a big-enough BBQ to have at least two burners . Only use the burner the meat is not on . If you have any prevailing wind and are not completely sheltered , make the hot side the upwind side . Either get a smoke-box , or do what I used to and use foil . Soak 1/3 to 1/2 your wood chips in water to slow them down . Foil worked just fine for me , made a pouch , put in the chips and poked the up-flat-side with a knife to make smoke holes . If you have a larger BBQ , consider adding in bricks or stones ( no river stone ! ) to help maintain even heat . By having less air and more thermal mass , you will do better . Let me meat come to room temperature before you put it on . Also no need to smoke right away , as the meat will not take it until it heats up further in the BBQ . Happy Eating
Amchur does n't give much of a flavor other than sour , at least , not in the amounts I use of it . It does have a bit of a distinctive aroma , but really , to me , it is just a fairly neutral sour flavor . The easiest , most neutral substitute would be citric acid powder . Unfortunately , they do n't usually give concentration/strengths on the packaging , but comparing Ball Citric Acid for Canning to the powdered amchur from the Indian store , it 's pretty close . I think the citric acid tastes a tiny bit lemony , but not enough to make a difference . Also , the amchur powder I buy is generally quite finely ground , and the citric acid is generally in crystals . If you are doing something like a spice blend ( e.g. , chat masala powder ) you would probably want to grind the crystals up to match the texture of the rest of the spices . Depending on what you 're making , there are quite a few substitutions , but most of them would be more obscure than ( or at least as obscure as ) the amchur , and all would be less neutral . Also , amchur is dry , so adding something liquid might affect your recipe . ( Easy to adjust if you are adding to something liquid , of course . ) In many Indian dishes , most of the Indians I know simply do use lemon juice when they want to make something sour , especially for northern dishes . This really is quite common , and nearly every Indian cook I know in the US has a large bottle of lemon juice in the fridge for every day use . If you 're making something South Indian , tamarind pulp or paste is often the souring agent of choice , but it is distinctly not neutral . It has a distinctive flavor and will also darken things ( in a somewhat yellow-orange-brown range ) . Some regions also use dried kokum fruit in the same way ( classic Maharashtrian aamti , for example ) , but I would say it is even more distinctive than tamarind , and it also will darken it ( with a dark grey-green-brown range of color ) . For both kokum and tamarind , you soak the pulp in water and add the soaking water without the pulp to the dish . You can also usually find tamarind concentrate ( a tarry paste ) but I 've never seen anything like that for kokum . One more option I just thought of is using some other unripe or sour fruit . Amchur is made by powdering dried green mangoes . You can actually sometimes find dried green mangoes at places like Trader Joe 's and if it is unsweetened , a small piece of that can certainly be used , but it seems that any fruit that is firm and sour should work , such as an unripe plum or a very tart apple . In that case , I would suggest either cooking with a small piece or two of the fruit in the sauce ( if there is one ) and removing it later or you could try to crush it and press some juice out . The problem here would be in figuring out the correct amount to add , but I think you could start from the dried-to-fresh conversion rates for herbs .
What are the best substitutes for arborio risotto rice ? Your best replacement would be another short grain , or in a pinch , medium grain rice . ( if it 's a variety that does n't cook up creamy enough for your liking ... you can cheat and after you remove it from the heat , quickly stir in a beaten egg ) And how about when your only choices are all the local shops have : pearl barley , or ' brown rice with barley and spelt blend ' ? I 'd probably go with the pearl barley , just because it 'll have a more consistent cooking time than a blend . ( so you do n't end up w / little uncooked nuggets in a puddle of overcooked mush . This makes me think pearl barley is the best option . It take a lot more boiling than normal rice ( 40 minutes ) , so I 'll have to half-cook it by boiling before adding it to my pan with stock as my risotto recipe calls for . Do n't pre-cook it . You want to toast your uncooked grains in the oil , just as you would with a rice-based risotto before you add any liquid . If you do n't do this step , <URL> ( I ca n't comment on the texture , as I 've never tried cooking pearl barley this way ) . If you 're reluctant to spend almost an hour in front of the stove , the period to cheat is in the middle ; toast it , do a couple of stock additions w / lots of stirring , then add lots of stock &amp; let it cook , then once it 's nearly dry go back to stirring &amp; slowly adding liquid 'til it 's done ... or <URL>
Ground beef cooks quite fast . It does n't need more than 5 minutes ( depending on the base of your pan and the amount of meat of course ) . Just take a piece and rip/cut it open . If it 's brown inside , and not red or pink , it 's fully cooked .
Generally , yes , you can leave a brisket in a marinade for 48 hours or even longer . The exception would be a marinade that is very highly acidic , but not that 's not likely to be a problem with a commercial marinade .
You could whip your own cream . Use 1/3 of the amount of heavy cream as cool whip , and whip with a splash of vanilla extract and a pinch of sugar to taste , either by hand or with a mixer . If a recipe calls for 1 cup of " whipped topping " , you would start with 1/3 cup of heavy cream which whips up to 1 cup .
Well , at least here in germany it really is common to make liverwurst with beef liver ( or more often and expensive : calf liver ) . So go ahead - you really wo n't regret it ! Taken the percentage of actual liver in liverwurst you wo n't taste any difference , though I 'd say beef liver tastes better .
I have found a few recipes on the web : <URL> <URL> There are also a few hard to find ready-made vegan Worcestershire sauces on the market , such as <URL> . When I read these recipes ( which I have never made ) I can tell that their flavor profile is missing some key aromas present in the original Worcestershire sauce . As strange as it may sound these sauces could use some of the aromas found in Parmigiano-Reggiano and in broccoli . Whichever recipe works out , someone should write a blog post on this topic .
Making a stew without browning is relatively safe since the prolonged cooking should kill off most pathogens . This is especially true if you are careful about your kitchen cleanliness and cut the meat down from a larger piece yourself instead of buying pre-cut " stew meat " or ground meat . Whole cuts of meat such as steaks or roasts usually only have E. coli on the surface , which makes the E. coli easier to kill by cooking . When the meat is ground or mechanically tenderized , E. coli on the surface can be transferred to the inside of the meat . This is why ground meat and mechanically tenderized meat are more likely to cause illness than whole cuts of meat . Like ground meats , prepackaged " stew meat " can contain tissues from multiple individual animals , thereby increasing the chance that there is E. coli present in the package . Each additional surface is another place for E. coli to grow while that package is sitting at the store or in your fridge . Browning , however contributes a significant amount of flavor to the stew , which will be lost . The good news is that you <URL> ... One alternative that I use is to buy the quantity of meat I plan to use as a whole roast ( instead of pre-cut " stew meat " ) then sear the entire roast before cutting it down to stew-size chunks . You get the flavor benefit of the Maillard browning with less time spent browning little pieces and less overcooked meat . If you use a lidless , oven braise technique , as suggested in Harold McGee 's On Food and Cooking , you will get further browning on any pieces that are n't totally submerged as well as flavor concentration from evaporation . Check out these previous posts on similar topics : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
The water pan does affect humidity in the cooking chamber and therefore , it does change the how quickly moisture evaporates out of the meat . The question really becomes - " Will the meat be moist enough without the water pan ? " Which , to a degree , is personal preference . Some choose to not use a water pan and baste instead , some use both and some neither . I would recommend trial and error . Brisket is relatively pricey so I would recommend using pork shoulders . Smoke one with the pan and one without and see if you think the moisture content is satisfactory . The briskets wo n't cook exactly the same but the relative moisture level in the shoulders should give you a decent estimate . I personally always use a water pan , but I do n't usually fear meat from a smoker being " too moist " , and it does wonders for temperature stabilization . I also have a larger smoking chamber than a WSM so it 's possible that too moist is a larger concern for you . One last note , while cooking too hot for too long will inevitably dry out your meat , cutting a brisket or shoulder without letting it set for at least an hour ( ideally 2 ) after cooking will also dry it out .
Oxtail would be your most likely substitute , but you have indicated you can not obtain it . The next best choice ( of those widely available ) is probably chuck , which is the shoulder muscle , and is well worked and flavored . It requires low and slow cooking for best results , much like shanks and tail do . Some stores -- even the chain grocery stores -- will special order for you if you ask them to , so you might be able to get shank . Depending on where you live , you may also try butchers at farmers ' markets , Dutch markets , or similar .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
My wife loves it toasted . Toast shredded coconut in a dry pan or oven and put on ice cream and other deserts . It 's really tasty . Like toasting other nuts be careful as if you blink it may burn .
Flour paste . Mix flour with water and a bit of salt . Go for a thick glaze-like consistency , and use it instead of the egg . Give it at least 10 minutes to hold before frying , and try to hold the edges closed with tongs when initially frying .
Let it rest anyway . Even at low temperatures , the juices will be flowing through the meat . Resting stops this process . As for the strange colour-changing meat , I suspect you just were n't observant . Meat that has gone brown will not spontaneously go pink again .
In addition to the sweetness , marmalade has a pronounced bitter flavor that could overpower the fish . It seems that others feel the same way -- there are few online recipes for fish with marmalade , and of those few , most are for salmon which has a more robust taste of its own to balance out the marmalade . Perhaps something like an apricot preserve would be more in the spirit of the original recipe ?
Joe , Whole wheat puff pastry . It 's expensive , and hard to find , though . Or try another recipe . If the recipe you 're using calls for puff pastry , then the flavor and texture of the puff pastry is going to be a big part of the dish . It never works very well to substitute a primary ingredient in a recipe .
The most widely-accepted substitute seems to be various sauces made from mushrooms . I do n't want to say " mushroom sauce " because most products do n't have that exact name . For example : Here you have " Vegetarian Mushroom Flavored Stir-Fry Sauce " on the left , and " Premium Shitake Mushroom Flavored Soy Sauce " on the right . I 'm actually not familiar with the one in the middle and not sure what the whole label says - it might be the same as the first . If you go to a specialty Asian food store , you might actually find a product called " vegetarian oyster sauce " , which is pretty much the same thing . Failing that , you can always substitute soy sauce , or hoisin sauce if you want a less watery texture . They wo n't be exactly the same , but it 's the same general idea ( dark , fermented , salty sauce rich in glutamates ) . " Fish sauce " will be very close to oyster sauce in taste , but may still contain shellfish , so be careful .
end question
start question
How much Omega-6 does sprat have ?
Fish contain very little n-6 ( Omega-6 aka linoleic ) fatty acids by nature . Most of the n-6 fats are contributed by vegetable sources during processing , such as vegetable oils used in coatings or pre-cooking . The amount of n-6 fats will depend on how the fish is processed and in which oil . The US National Library of Medicine has a brief article at <URL> . Info on n-3 and n-9 fatty acids in sprats can be found <URL>
Use less heat . It 's not clear if you used any fat here . If you do , you have to be aware of the <URL> of whatever oil you 're using . By turning down the heat you 'll decrease the amount of fat you are burning , and turning into smoke . If you want to still get a nice crisp exterior you can briefly sear your sausages on high heat prior to fully cooking . Although , his might be irrelevant since you do n't really get good sears with a non-stick surface .
In this <URL> video he uses a " knob " of butter . It appears to be about 2 Tbsp . I do n't think it 's intended to be a specific term . You 'd never see " knob " used for baking , where exact amounts matter . When cooking , recipes tend to be a general guideline rather than a strict set of instructions .
Pepper sauces usually deliver an aroma ( from the peppers ) , some sweet/sour/salty element ( from the pickling ingredients mostly ) , and heat ( from the peppers ) . A hotter pepper will not necessarily be stronger in aroma , so using this kind of super hot pepper alone can end you up with a sauce that is hot but poor in flavor . Also , given that capsaicin is very soluble in fat but not very soluble in water/vinegar , such a sauce will have a very uneven distribution of heat and will likely end up with a very harsh , unpleasant heat no matter how diluted - similar to throwing chile powder into a lean soup .
I ended up measuring the scoop spoon the next time I was in the US , and it turned out to be 1 Tablespoon .
Fish contain very little n-6 ( Omega-6 aka linoleic ) fatty acids by nature . Most of the n-6 fats are contributed by vegetable sources during processing , such as vegetable oils used in coatings or pre-cooking . The amount of n-6 fats will depend on how the fish is processed and in which oil . The US National Library of Medicine has a brief article at <URL> . Info on n-3 and n-9 fatty acids in sprats can be found <URL>
There are only three advantages that I can think of for a brasier : The lower sides result in faster evaporation when cooking on the stove top , as it does n't hold in the steam . It 's typically not as heavy for the same surface area . You should be able to fit two of them in your oven ( on different racks ) , which is unlikely for a dutch oven . Personally , I do n't have any of that shape pan in cast iron , and the ones that I do have , I do n't use for braising ; I use them for pilaf-type dishes or casseroles where you want a wide but shallow covered dish . I do n't know if a cast iron vessel would work as well for those dishes , as the thermal mass could make it more difficult to cook the middle sufficiently without overcooking the outside , unless is n't something that you can serve immediately after coming out of the oven .
You need 1.1 x as much water as pasta for al dente ! I measured this myself , cooking penne rigate ( in water , not sauce ) - 200g of pasta weighed 420g after being cooked and thoroughly drained . The estimate below from the nutrition facts is 1.4 x , which probably corresponds to typical American overcooked pasta - a surprisingly large difference from mine . I 'm guessing you 'll be somewhere between , maybe 1.25 x . You can also ballpark it from nutrition facts . <URL> has 31g carbs per 100g pasta , and <URL> has 75g carbs per 100g pasta . So 100g dry pasta turns into 100g * 75/31 = 242g of cooked pasta , meaning the added water was ~ 1.4 x the weight of the pasta . So for a pound of pasta , that 's 1.4 pounds or about 2 2/3 cups of water . Given people 's tastes , this might be a little past al dente , so I would personally start with maybe 1.25 cups of water then add a little more if necessary . ( I 'll also try cooking pasta normally and weighing it if I get a chance . ) Note : if you have a significantly different variety of pasta , it will obviously behave differently . This is for pasta that 's 13 % protein and 75 % carbohydrates . For the standard 2oz/56g ( dry ) serving on the package , it 'll say 7g protein and 41-42g carbohydrates . I checked Barilla , De Cecco , Ronzonni , Garofalo , Safeway store brand , Trader Joe 's store brand , and those nutrition facts , and they all matched . If you 're branching out to other styles like whole grains or egg noodles , things will obviously change , but things are very uniform in the US .
There 's too many factors to have a set percentage of oil that will stay , but lets cover a few common things that determine the oil in your final product . Heat of the oil : Your oil needs to be plenty hot enough to actually fry in . For fries , you 'll typically want to shoot for between 350-375 F . If you do n't have a thermometer , then get one ! If you really do n't want to get one , a white bread cube will fry brown in about 60 seconds at the right temp - but a thermometer is best . If the oil is n't hot enough to fry in , it will start to absorb the oil . So before you ever fry anything , get that oil up to temp ( and make sure its that way between batches ! ) . Coating of the fry ( or other fried food ) : A batter coating is just going to hold more oil than a plain french fry . If you 're trying to be health conscious about french fries ( but then again , why are you eating french fries !?! ) , avoid batter coating them and go with a ' plain ' fry . Post frying treatment : Shake , shake , shake ! Give the basket a good vigorous shake . Do n't have a basket ? Use a strainer or at least a cooling rack with a mesh-type grate . You 're trying to physically shake as much oil off the fry as you can . Additionally , I like to lay them on paper towels and then fold the paper towels on top . See all that oil ? Simple math , if its on the paper towel , its not in the fry anymore . Crowding the pan : If you crowd the pan you fry in , you 'll lower the temperature of the oil and give the oil not enough circulation . This means longer to fry and more time not at the right temperature . This means more oil in the final product . Its better to do some smaller batches than to try to cram it all in one batch . The right oil : The main thing here is that you need an oil that can fry hot enough without smoking . This goes back to the right temperature . ( In case it had n't sunk in yet , temperature is important ! ) If you ca n't get it hot enough , then you 're going to absorb a lot of oil . Olive oil is a bad choice . I usually use peanut or canola oil .
The pot will have more caffeine . You are right that the concentration of the final solution is determined not only by steeping time , temperature , etc. , but also by the amount of water available to dilute the stuff coming out of the tea , including caffeine . It will reach balance earlier with less water . So more water will get more of the different compounds in tea dissolved . For an empirical observation by somebody surprised by the result , see also <URL> .
There are a number of factors that will contribute to how well the salt penetrates the interior of the piece of fish including thickness of the fish , types of tissue that have to be penetrated , and length of brine . The skin creates a significant barrier to salt penetration and the solution will penetrate the meat from its face and from its leaner side . After brining there will be more salt near the lean face than near the skin area . In order to get the most even salt penetration remove the skin , cut the pieces thin like sushi or ceviche , and brine in a 15 % salt solution for 2-3 hours . For even penetration you need even contact on both sides of the meat so you either need to suspend the pieces in the solution , or flip them at regular intervals . The surface will always be saltier than the core , but with thinner pieces and sufficient time the difference will be negligible . If you want to use larger pieces you will need to extend the time . Consider combining a soaking brine with injections of the brine solution into the meat itself . You could brine any kind of fish that you would find in a sushi restaurant , just make sure it is as fresh as possible . EDIT : After reading <URL> comment I was able to find <URL> which states that salted herring typically has a salt concentration of 7-13 % , however <URL> leads me to believe that a dry cure then brine combination may be responsible for the higher salt concentration . According an <URL> about hams and sausages , wet curing methods can reach salt concentrations up to 26 % , but maximum weight gain is reached with a salt concentration around 5 % . The first site also notes that salt concentrations above 7 % are considered unpalatable by most people .
I 'd go for a more powerful one , in general , and I noticed that the higher powered disposals are sometimes quieter , which I really like . I really learned that paying the extra for good plumbing parts ( faucet , disposal ) through our plumber was worth it , since they can be fixed , unlike cheaper big box store stuff , and that there was a real difference in the higher quality disposal .
Fat floats , so if you dump the water into a bowl and let it sit for a bit , you can see how much floats to the top . You can then remove the fat in any of the normal ways ( this is exactly the process you use to defat a stock or a soup ) , and measure it . Of course , I quickly looked up the nutrition information on ramen , and it has ~ 7g fat , ~ 3g saturated . An egg is ~ 6g fat , ~ 2g saturated . The fish is ~ 27g fat , ~ 6g saturated . Check your red curry seasoning as well ( varies a lot by brand/type ) So it seems like your approach is misguided , but nutrition questions are off-topic here . edit : From thinking about your comment , you may want to try switching to spaghetti . You can just break it until it fits in the bowl , and it should be cookable in a bowl in the microwave , or even soaking in boiling water . You wo n't get perfect al dente or anything close , and my Italian ancestors will be after me for even suggesting this , but it will cut down on the fat . You can even get whole-wheat spaghetti .
Caffeine is water soluble , but it takes a bit of time to be absorbed by water . What determines the caffeine content of a coffee process is how much time it spends with/in water . For example , a bodum French press will pick up more caffeine from the coffee since the grounds stay soaked for a while . Drip coffee will have more than a single espresso ( common misconception is to think the opposite ) . It 's likely that the instant coffee process passes the water through the coffee under pressure and faster than drip . This will naturally prevent the caffeine to be absorbed in water as much . Besides using decaf roast , what you may wish to do is get an americano coffee made with one or two Ristretto shots of espresso . A Ristretto shot is usually pull away after 10 seconds . Take a look at this analysis from the <URL> for the actual Caffeine values .
There are a few factors that could effect this : 1 ) How the meat is cooked and how lean or fatty it is . If you overcook the meat ( although I doubt that you would ! ) or if it 's leaner or fattier . If its a fattier meat add say an extra 2 tbsps or so of sauce and if it 's leaner ( or overcooked ) I would add a tbsp or so less of sauce . 2 ) The viscosity and composition of the sauce . If it 's a white wine sauce ( thinner , less rich ) you would want to add more , however if it 's a hollondaise sauce ( thicker , richer ) you may want less . 3 ) Opinion , some people like more sauce , some people like less . It may depend on the type of sauce which you may want more or less of . Saying this I would say around 4 tbsp of sauce , then account for the additions and your own personal preference . Any more sauce and it may become swamped , any less and you will not have enough sauce to taste or keep the meat moist . It is a very subjective subject so do keep that in mind .
Generally with baking you mix all the wet ingredients , then all the dry , then incorporate the latter into the former . This prevents clumping and helps make sure everything is mixed uniformly . In some recipes , adding the eggs ( often un par un , or one by one ) also contributes ( via the yolk 's supply of lecithin ) to emulsifying e.g. butter and milk together . The best way to find out , of course , is to experiment . Next time you 're making these cookies , make a double batch . Do one according to the recipe , and the other your way . Honestly with cookies I doubt you 'll see much difference ; they 're basically foolproof ( I have , when in a hurry , made chocolate chip cookies by dumping everything in the mixer , whacking it about with the paddle attachment , and then folding in the actual chips . Worked fine , basically ) . When it comes to baking things that are more finicky -- cakes etc -- I would follow the recipe directions .
The antioxidants in blueberries lie in the berries themselves , not in the pesticides residing on their skin . Washing them before freezing means that water freezes on the outside . The water crystals puncture the skins of the berries , changing the texture .
There are quite a few different <URL> It 'd be surprising if farmers did n't change which ones they plant in response to changing climatic and economic factors . Size and taste changes when they do that .
I think what 's really happening here is mostly physics , rather than any magical reaction between the meat and the " velvet " ( i.e. egg and cornstarch ; I 'm going to use this term for brevity ) . The largest effect is that the velvet adds a thin , clingy coating to the outside of the meat . When introduced to heat , that 's providing a barrier to the movement of thermal energy into the meat proteins . The proteins in the egg are denaturing , the starches are gelatinizing , and that absorbs some of the energy that would otherwise have gone into your meat . The presence of sheer additional mass from the velvet also means that it simply takes more energy to raise the overall temperature . This means that the temperature increases more slowly , and can be better controlled ( sort of like sous vide cooking ) . As the starch gelatinizes , it 's also forming a moisture-resistant barrier around the outside of the meat . That could very possibly prevent moisture from leaking out of the meat as it 's squeezed out of cells with denaturing proteins . Ordinarily it would leak out into your poaching liquid ( or wok if you 're stir-frying , where it would rapidly boil off ) but now it 's trapped in the pieces of meat . This is also somewhat analogous to sous vide cooking , or maybe to poaching in oil - the food being cooked stays moist , because the water is trapped inside ( by a bag in sous vide , by hydrophobic oil in oil-poaching ) and has nowhere to go . Another factor is the very gentle cooking being done , in a barely-simmering water bath for a short period of time . This is cooking the meat just up to the point of doneness , by doing so at a rather low temperature ( say 210 F or so , compared to 500 F or higher for a properly hot wok ) and only very briefly , with the velvet coating for additional thermal protection . After that , the meat does n't really need to be cooked much at all - it can be tossed into a nearly finished stir-fry just to the point of being re-heated . That seems to be why <URL> tosses out this interesting comment : The meat remains soft and tender . ( You 've probably noticed in Cantonese restaurants that stir-fried meat is almost never browned or seared . ) I had n't given it much thought before now , but that seems to match my experience in good Chinese restaurants , at least with certain dishes . Contrasting this with stir-frying sans-velvet , think about a browned piece of meat : the surface is covered with a delicious Maillard-browned crust , but those proteins have also been cooked to the point of losing their moisture . Even if the interior of the meat is moist , the outside 's been dried , literally to a crisp . With velveted meat , that 's not the case - each entire piece remains moist , and there 's no browned , crunchy layer . I 'll be the first to admit that much of this is conjecture , but I think it provides a reasonable explanation for some of the processes that keep velveted meat moist . Might be interesting to dig up some scientific references on the thermal gradients of proteins vs. starches - I 'll see what I can find .
Prime rib is usually sold two ways , Bone-In or Bone-Out . For a Bone-In prime rib an 8 pound should serve you well , for a Bone-Out , Six will do nicely . I would also highly recommend you refer to the prime rib narrative of " <URL> " to learn how to prepare your roast . [ Edit ] Most restaurants that I have either had or seen Prime Rib served at will offer 10 oz or 12 oz serving size , with some variations in the overall 8-16 oz ( 225g - 450g ) range . Appetites will vary from person to person , and you may wish to not serve the ' heals ' as they will be more well done than the center , though some guests may prefer this . . so , ' your-mileage-may-vary ' . The very size of beef ribs makes serving them ' bone-in ' impractical , as it results in a serving that is too thick for a single serving ( though some restaurants do this for eye-appeal ) . For your home dinner party I would not recommend planning based on ' bone count ' . Even if you buy and cook your roast " bone-in " your first cut after preparing and resting the meat should be to remove the bones from the roast . Since leftovers are goal you have set for this preparation you may wish to then slice the roast " on the bias " ( about a 15 ° -20 ° angle from perpendicular to the bone section ) as it will produce a larger footprint on the plate . The ends will provide you with good meat to include in a soup or slice up for sandwiches .
end question
start question
Does it harm juice if I store it in sub-zero temperatures ?
Freezing juice will definitely not harm the juice itself , but it might harm your container if you 're not careful . The juice can expand quite a bit during the freezing process , so make sure that your container is n't completely full before you freeze it . If the juice is already in a container ( i.e. you bought it ) then keep in mind that the container might not be designed for freezing and could explode at freezing temperatures due to the expanding volume . If you 're not sure , you might be better off transferring them to some large freezer bags . I should also mention that freezing will only slow down the enzymatic activity that degrades fruit ( and fruit juice ) over time , not stop it completely . Most fruit juice has been boiled to inactivate the enzymes , but if yours has n't , then you might notice ( bad ) changes in the colour and taste over time . If you plan to consume it within a few weeks , or if the juice already has various preservatives , then do n't worry about it , but if it 's very fresh juice and this is for long-term storage , then you might want to briefly boil it before storing if you 're not sure about its history . Keep in mind that the above will itself alter the taste , so if you plan to do it , test it on a small amount first to be sure that you can live with the " blanched " taste .
The smell is of rancid fats in the flour . It is a very distinct smell , but hard to describe . I would agree that " sour " is part of it . The best way to learn is by comparison . Smell some fresh , clean flour and remember what it is like . Any kind of unpleasant odor than that is rancidity . You may have smelled it also if you opened a box of cereal that has been around too long , or even poppy or sesame seeds - anything with fats that sits around at room temp will eventually go rancid .
All the blender does is emulsify the mixture -- it has no effect on how long it will keep before the dressing begins to spoil or go off . Normally , oil and water do not like to mix . The oil will coalesce into droplets , then rise to the top due to buoyancy , so that you will have a layer of oil above the water-based liquids . Blending the mixture will break up the oil droplets into very small droplets . These take much longer to coalesce together , so you have a creamy dressing for a time . Over time , the oil can coalesce and separate back out . If this happens , assuming the ingredients have not spoiled , you can always remix or re-blend the mixture -- it s not a safety issue . I suggest storing your dressing in the refrigerator , where it will be good for several days , probably up to a week , although the oil may separate out . You can freeze it , but this is likely to encourage the emulsion to break . Note : I have not discussed emulsifiers like lecithin from egg yolks or mustard which help keep oil-water emulsions stable , because I do n't see any in this recipe .
Lime juice is n't going to make it less spicy , if anything I 've found it accentuates the spiciness a bit although I 'm not sure of the mechanism . It could be that the acidity frees up more capsaicin compounds ( what makes hot food hot ) , or wakes up your taste buds more . Most likely you have simply added a weak jalapeno . Peppers of the same variety can vary in heat strength quite a bit depending on the where and how it was grown , although you 'll get weak and strong peppers from the same plant . You can make up for the lack of spice by adding more jalapeno or a bit of hot chili powder .
" Folding " is a more gentle mixing technique than " stirring " and " mixing " . Stirring and mixing both denote a more vigorous action . Folding is usually used for items where something has previously been whipped ( such as egg whites or cream ) or where tenderness is desired and thus less mixing is advisable ( muffins &amp; biscuits ) . Folding is usually done with a rubber spatula ( for liquid &amp; dry ingredients ) or with a wire whisk ( often beneficial for whipped cream and egg whites so that the mixture gently incorporates as it falls through the wires ) . To " fold " ingredients together : Hold the spatula or whisk in your dominant hand and grasp the far edge of the bowl ( side that is away from you ) with your non-dominant hand . Turn the bowl towards you with your non-dominant hand while simultaneously scraping around the edge ( also toward you ) and finish by folding the mixture over on top of itself . Return both hands to the far side of the bowl and follow-up by cutting through the center of the mixture with your utensil and once again folding the mix over on top of itself ( again , turning the bowl simultaneously ) . Alternate scraping around the side and through the middle of the bowl until the mixture is just combined together . Note that if an airy mixture such as egg whites or whipped cream start to go from soft and billowy to more liquid-like , you are overworking it and need to stop to maintain volume . In the case of whipped cream and egg whites you typically add a small portion to the heavier mixture and actually DO stir this in . While yes you 're losing some of the volume of that portion , it serves to help lighten the heavier batter/mixture . The rest of the whites/cream are then folded in to the mix in several additions . Sometimes dry ingredients may be sift on top of whipped eggwhites before being folded . The larger the spatula or whisk , the fewer strokes that will need to be made and the better the results will be .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
Yes , as you said , the increased surface area makes it go bad faster . Not only that , but bacteria on top of the meat can now go to the middle with little resistance . Consider the expiration date of ground beef and whole beef slabs . Pork tends to go bad faster than beef , and freshly butchered pig smells of feces ( especially right beneath the skin ) , but they still go bad faster .
You find that storing in the fridge is going to give you the longest life span . Hanging will keep keep the process of drying out continuing , which will intensify the flavour but will eventually become jerky texture . Wrapping will keep a little moisture in longer . If you do keep it for a period of time , you will develop a white mould which I will just cut of as it is just surface . The curing has stopped the pork breaking down . When I travelled through Spain , all of the city markets would have whole pieces of prosciutto hanging from there stalls that where covered in a fat that was covered in a green mould . When they needed a new piece they cut the mould and fat off and would start slicing for the customers ( some up there for over a year ) . I think the fridge is safer .
It has nothing to do with the microwave and everything to do with the volatility of aromas and flavors in coffee . Even coffee kept warm for 4 hours wo n't taste very good . In my experience , stale brewed coffee results in a more pronounced acidity , if left out to cool , or a woody , muddy , bitter kind of flavor , sometimes with more pronounced acidity , if held warm . If you were to make a straight espresso , it 's optimal to drink it within 20-30 seconds . Brewed coffee can usually be held warm around 30 minutes before pronounced deterioration becomes obvious . A popular Japanese TV show suggested perhaps stirring a pinch of salt in to stale , reheated coffee , which may trick your tastebuds enough into tolerating it . I 've found that tactic less than adequate , but your mileage may vary . There 's a ton of information on coffee flavor compounds and other coffee-related research at : <URL>
Bread is mostly flour and water . Flour comprises a small amount of protein ( gluten , which is responsible for the bread 's elasticity or chewiness ) and a large amount of starch ( specifically two molecules called amylose and amylopectin ) . The process involved in bread baking - in massively oversimplified terms - accomplishes two things : Development of additional gluten ; and <URL> . The latter - starch gelatinization - is the important part in the context of this question . In order for the starch to gelatinize , it needs to be completely dissolved in water and then heated , which breaks up its original crystalline structure . This process can not be reversed ... except , it sort of can . Gelatinized starch undergoes another process called <URL> . At lower temperatures , these starch molecules will actually start to realign themselves back into their original crystalline structure or something similar , and during the process they will force out water . That is why refrigerated bread often appears to have a soggy exterior , and frozen bread may develop a layer of frost on the top . This process does n't happen on a large scale , but it is enough to make the bread go stale . But remember that bread is mostly water . When you heat it again , as in the microwave , you are significantly improving the solubility of these reformed crystalline molecules , which causes them to dissolve again . Essentially you are re-hydrating the dehydrated ( stale ) bread with its own water . As you 've noticed , the taste is n't great . You ca n't change the fact that the bread has lost water , and a non-trivial amount of great protein and other flavour in the process . The reheated bread is kind of limp and soggy and fragile because the protein ( gluten ) is what was holding it together . But it 's softer . If you 've got very stale bread , another trick you can use is to wrap it in a cloth dampened with hot water for a few minutes , or use a paper towel and microwave the whole thing for a short time . That will do a lot more to hydrate the retrograded starches instead of relying on whatever water is left in the super stale bread .
Propane and butane are pure alkanes . They do n't produce anything nasty when burned . The worst you could possibly get should be carbon monoxide ( and I am not even sure it can be produced in a torch , the dioxide ifs much more likely ) , but it being a gas , it wo n't stick to your food . The complex molecules you get from heating the food itself have more potential for being harmful than the combustion products of a propane butane torch . Ago yes , it is food safe . Another matter of safety is that it is easier to cause a fire with a hardware store torch , because it has more power than the kitchen ones . But a sensible adult should be able to handle the thing safely .
This completely depends on all of the other factors involved in botulinum growth , not to mention the particular strain you 're concerned about ( there are several ) . Salt , acidity ( low pH ) , low moisture , and extreme temperature ( low or high ) will all slow botulinum growth significantly . There are proteolytic and non-proteolytic types of bacteria . The proteolytic C.botulinum bacteria will never grow in the refrigerator - they can not grow at temperatures below 12 ° C <URL> . The non-proteolytic strains can grow at temperatures as low as 3 ° C . That is very close to refrigerator temperature so clearly they will grow very slowly - again , the exact speed depends on other factors - but they will grow . According to <URL> , the proteolytic strains ( the ones that can not grow in the fridge ) are the ones that tend to produce gas and off-odours , so they 'll be more easily detectable . They also have far lower heat resistance , so they are easier to cook away . But of course , if they 've grown to a sufficient level , it 's too late to do that . As far as I know , there are n't specific guidelines for vacuum-packed foods , whether commercially packed or simply cooked sous-vide . I 'd ask you to consider that botulism is not the only type of foodborne illness that can grow in the refrigerator . There 's also <URL> , <URL> , and possibly some others I 'm forgetting about . Cooking ( especially sous-vide cooking ) does n't kill every last one of them , just enough to make the food safe . By the way , listeria and salmonella are both <URL> which means that they can grow with or without air . There 's also the small matter of your actual refrigerator temperature . Although the theoretical temperature ( 4 ° C ) is lower than that required for all but the hardiest of bacteria , once you move up even a single degree to 5 ° C there are many more kinds that can start to grow . How cold is your fridge , really ? I 've heard of some being as high as 10-12 ° C in parts ! If your fridge temperature is even slightly high , botulism will be the least of your worries . Honestly , given the incredibly tiny number of actual documented cases of botulism ( <URL> ) compared to the insanely high total number of food poisoning cases every year ( <URL> according to some sources ) , people seem to place far too much emphasis on that particular species . I realize that it 's one of the scariest on account of that whole " instant death " thing , but even if you could prove that your improperly-stored food is 100 % free of botulism toxin , you could still get seriously ill from eating it . You 're literally worrying about the least probable vector for food poisoning . Bottom line , I 'd strongly advise you to treat sous-vide food just like any other food in terms of food safety and freeze it if you plan to store it longer than 4-5 days . There are just too many variables at play to conclusively say otherwise .
From what you 're describing , I think the cheese ( or cheese-like substance , in this case ) ' broke ' ... that is , the oil separated out of it . I 'd recommend : Do n't melt it at full power Stir it multiple times during melting Melt the cheese ( or " cheese-food " ) seperately , then add the tomatoes , so the tomatoes do n't get hot , causing uneven heating . I 'm not sure if there 's a good way to recover cheese once it 's broken . Some starch will help keep dairy from breaking in the first place , but I do n't think it 'd help you in this particular case .
For protection against heat , you can stabalize the milk with starches . ( eg , a white sauce made with milk wo n't curdle , even if you boil it ) . I unfortunately do n't know how much you 'd have to add , and of course , it 'll end up affecting the texture of your soup ) . For soups , you 're likely better off making a corn starch/milk slurry before adding the milk , so you do n't have to cook it like you would flour to get rid of the raw flour taste . You may also want to consider the heat that you 're cooking the soup at -- you likely want a low simmer , not a full boil .
No , you probably do n't want to just squish leftover puff pastry dough together to save it . While it would be perfectly safe , it would ruin the layering that gives the rise and flakiness that is the reason for using puff pastry . If you have a large enough section still intact , you could put in the refrigerator for a day or two , to use later . Otherwise , a typical thing to do would be to prepare sweet or savory snacks with the surplus pieces . Cut it into convenient shapes . If you have large enough pieces , sticks would be good , even twisting them to give them an interesting texture . Then , brush the pieces with butter ( or oil ) , and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar ; or grated Parmesan cheese ; or rosemary and salt ; or some other complimentary flavor . Bake the pieces up until they are puffed and golden brown and they are very nice snacks or treats .
Lemon juice thickens condensed milk in the same way it would " thicken " regular milk , i.e. , by curdling . Basically , milk has two general types of proteins : casein and whey . The casein is what forms the " curds " in " curds and whey . " Both proteins are somewhat unusual in that they do n't tend to coagulate with heat ( as eggs proteins do , for example ) . Thus , they will survive largely intact even with the processing of condensed milk . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking explains what happens when they encounter acids , though : The casein family includes four different kinds of proteins that gather together into microscopic family units called micelles . Each casein micelle contains a few thousand individual protein molecules . . . . Around a tenth of the volume of milk is taken up by casein micelles . Much of the calcium in milk is in the micelles , where it acts as a kind of glue holding the protein molecules together . One portion of calcium binds individual protein molecules together into small clusters of 15 to 25 . Another portion then helps pull several hundred of the clusters together to form the micelle ... One member of the casein family is especially influential in these gatherings . That is kappa-casein which caps the micelles once they reach a certain size , prevents them from growing larger , and keeps them dispersed and separate . One end of the capping-casein molecule extends from the micelle out into the surrounding liquid , and forms a " hairy layer " with a negative electrical charge that repels other micelles ... If [ milk ] gets acid enough to approach pH 5.5 , the capping-casein 's negative charge is neutralized , the micelles no longer repel each other , and they therefore gather in loose clusters . At the same acidity , the calcium glue that holds the micelles together dissolves , the micelles begin to fall apart , and their individual proteins scatter . Beginning around pH 4.7 , the scattered casein proteins lose their negative charge , bond to each other again and form a continuous fine network : and the milk solidifies , or curdles . Thus , if you add lemon juice to regular milk , it will curdle and thicken , just as milk does when it sours naturally or when it is fermented into yogurt , kefir , cultured buttermilk , etc. ( which all involve bacteria that acidify the milk ) . The same process happens if you add acid to condensed milk .
The majority of the alcohol evaporates during baking . McGee 's On Food and Cooking says ( pg 532 ) : In making beer and wine , the carbon dioxide escapes from the fermenting liquid , and alcohol accumulates . In making bread both carbon dioxide and alcohol are trapped by the dough , and both are expelled from the dough by the heat of baking . I also found <URL> , which states that some alcohol ( 0.04 to 1.9 % ) may remain . However , the report is from 1926 , so 1 . it may not be really representing modern day situation 2 . the data , methodology etc. is not reported : it looks more like an informal news than a real research article , so I can not critique on whether the results are realistic .
Salt ( Sodium chloride ) is salt . As a topping , flakes are commonly used purely for presentation purposes only . The taste is the same , but gets more intense as the salt particles get finer , so use less if the salt is in powder form As an ingredient , use any form you are happy with , and is economical to use . Once salt is dissolved into water it will be identical to any other form of salt For health reasons , finely powdered salt is preferable as much less is required to impart a salty taste
That is almost certainly a " best by " date , not an expiration date . <URL> calls the shelf life of uncooked white rice " indefinite " . Yes , you can cook and serve your rice assuming that it is free of contaminants .
end question
start question
How long should I saute garlic ?
Not long at all . Usually 1 minute is enough . If it starts to turn brown , it 's been in there too long .
Treat it like beef steak . Super-hot pan , slap it on , keep pressing it with your finger , when it feels very firm , it 's well done ; about 5-6 minutes a side in general but it will depend on thickness ; the finger test never lies . Let it rest for a few minutes after cooking .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
Depending on what meat and cut you are brining , and how you intend to treat the meat after brining . You may need to experiment , anything from 50 % to 100 % of the time your recipe book suggest . Search for brining guidelines and other useful information , there are a large community that have a lot of knowledge and experience .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
Depending on the temperature in your fridge , cooked lentils will be safe to eat for 2 to 5 days when using a sealed container , filled with the cooking water . By immersing them , your lentils wo n't dry out and they 'll be ready to use whenever you need them - just drain the amount you need . If you 've got sufficient freezer space you could also freeze the cooked lentils . Just prepare a whole lot of lentils and divide them in individual portions to put in small freezer bags . Make sure you push out any air before sealing the bag . Freezed lentils will be fine anywhere from 4 up to 6 months . However , I would strongly recommend using dried lentils , which I 'm sure you 'll be able to find in Copenhagen . Just make a habit of soaking the amount of lentils you need for your breakfast and you 'll never have to worry about storing leftovers . It 's a lot cheaper too ! But above that , dried lentils tend to taste much better than canned lentils . :)
Time is n't the main factor , gluten development is . You should knead the dough until the gluten is sufficiently developed to give the dough elasticity , and the final bread good structure . There are two simple tests you can perform to check whether your dough is kneaded sufficiently . First , the Poke Test . Form the dough into a ball , and with a floured finger , give it a light poke . If it springs back to its original shape , you 're on the right track . Secondly , you can do the Windowpane Test . Grab off a chunk of dough , then try and stretch it apart . If the gluten is sufficiently developed , the dough should n't tear - it should stretch to a point where you can see light through it , hence the name .
Mincemeat originally had meat in it along with suet and a small amount of fruits and spices . As the cost of the fruits and spices dropped the quantities started to shift until now , you never see any meat at all besides the suet in traditional mincemeat . Victorian times they would make the mincemeat in the late fall and set it aside in the root cellar for about 8 weeks but evidently could be held for upwards to 6 months . The cool cellar and the high percent of spirits did n't cause much harm to them back then . The longer the better as the fruit and suet would absorb more flavours . Here 's a link to a Google book that has a recipe from 1786 : <URL> It does n't sound that great but then the really old dishes never were .
North American cookware companies seem to use the terms " saute " and " sauteuse " interchangeably , but technically , the saute pan is the straight-sided one , and the sauteuse or " fry pan " is the slope-sided one . In French cooking equipment terms , the straight-sided one is called a " sautoir " , and the sauteuse has higher sides and while angled out , they are not curved . The curved , shorter sided one is called a poele ( and probably what most North Americans would identify as a " frying pan " ) . So the issue is really that there are a lot of different names floating around for just 3 types of pans . When you saute , you want to maximize cooking surface area , so that things do n't steam . Sloped sides will reduce the cooking surface , so that 's why a saute pan will have straight sides . Regarding the lid , it would be used in the case that you want to cover the pan after a sear , to braise or steam . It also makes your pan more versatile . Regardless of the etymology of " saute " , according to La Cuisine de Reference , the definition of saute is to cook quickly in a small amount of oil , and any of the aforementioned pans can be used for this cooking technique . " Sauter - Cuire rapidement des petites pièces de viande , de poisson ou de légumes dans un sautoir , une sauteuse ou une poêle , avec un peu de matière grasse . "
The green in the center can have a bitter taste , and many chefs prefer to remove them . If the taste and color do n't bother you , it will not cause problems for the dish . The brown end tends to a have a harder consistency than the rest of the clove , so may cause a problem depending on how you cook the garlic . If you 're cooking it in a manner that leads to a very soft and mushy piece of garlic , you 'd be better off discarding it . ( Boiling in soup , for example . ) It probably would not make much of a difference if you were browning the garlic for a topping .
In general the FDA recommends that you consume leftovers within 3-5 days ( See their website for specific foods ) . In this case , I do n't think the garlic is what 's holding you back . While garlic and herb infused oils do present some botulism risk , I think what they are getting at is the can of preserved garlic you 've had in the fridge for 9 months .
An0r4k , I assume that you 're making a cup of black ( ? ) tea and steeping some lemongrass in it . If so , perhaps you should make the black tea very weak as its tannins might be amplifying the ( pleasant ) slight bitterness of the lemongrass to distasteful levels . Alternatively , if you are steeping the lemongrass in hot water , try removing the outer layers of the lemongrass stalk . If they are old or tough , this can increase the bitterness of the drink . In any case , check that there is n't any dirt trapped between the layers of the lemongrass . Some recipies call for putting the lemongrass into water , bringing it to a boil and then letting it simmer for 10-15 minutes . I have n't tried this . Even if it does produce a smoother taste , then the boiling might well degradge any health-giving nutrients from the lemongrass .
The exterior coating on an egg is known as the " cuticle " . It helps to protect the ( porous ) shell and minimize moisture loss , but it eventually breaks down as the chick matures and prepares to hatch . The reason that eggs in the US are typically sold under refrigeration is because they are washed with warm water and detergent to remove the large amount of bacteria that are deposited on the shell while being laid . Once the cuticle is removed the egg becomes more porous . Most bakeries that are using whole eggs will typically keep several flats out at all times to have them at room temperature . Eggs will store better and longer in the refrigerator but if being used frequently and fairly quickly , they can also be left at room temperature . Howard McGee in On Food &amp; Cooking says that egg quality deteriorates as much in one day at room temperature as it does four days under refrigeration .
Technique Always use a cutting surface made for a knife , particularly a wooden chopping board/block . Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal , glass , or stone ; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives . Also avoid cutting frozen items , for the same reason . Use the dull end ( " top " ) of the knife for scraping food off surfaces , or use a scraper or spatula instead . Knives are meant to cut straight , along the edge ; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly . Do not use more force than necessary . A sharp knife should cut with very little effort . The more pressure you apply , the faster it will dull . Use a <URL> for bones or other very hard foods . General-purpose chef 's knives or smaller knives are n't appropriate for this task , and may chip or even snap . General Care Wash or rinse knives promptly after use . The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal ( fruits , onions , etc. ) . Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel . Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune . This goes for all metal but especially knives , because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut . Air-drying may also leave you with stains or " spots " due to salts and other trace minerals in the water . Store knives in a dry , open area , away from other objects , to avoid moisture build-up , impacts , and secondary rust . <URL> . A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts , corrosion , and warping of the wooden handle/joint . Quality knives should be hand-washed . Honing Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife . You will need an <URL> ( sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel ) , which can be bought inexpensively . Note that <URL> ; the best value tends to be in the $ 30 ( USD ) range . Honing is not the same as sharpening . Honing helps to align the existing edge , which becomes skewed or " curled " after regular use . It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged , e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the " General Care " advice above . To hone a knife : Keep the honing steel vertical . Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel . Stroke downward and towards yourself . Alternate strokes , and do an equal number of times on both sides . Here is a <URL> . Sharpening <URL> involves a whetstone ( AKA <URL> ) and is an art unto itself . <URL> , however , the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional . If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife 's edge - and if it 's been well-maintained , this should take several weeks or months - then it 's time to get the knife sharpened . An alternative to professional sharpening ( or learning to use a whetstone ) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener , such as the <URL> . This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening , but it is very convenient and fast . Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives . This may still be true of the cheaper , single-stage sharpeners , because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat . However , the more modern , higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly , have precise angle control , and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process ( grinding , steeling , stropping ) . The " grinding " stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged , and will actually create a new edge . If your knife is in reasonable shape , then it 's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you do n't grind too much . ( Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance ) . Yet another option , if you 're on a tight budget , is to <URL> . Follow the link for additional information on technique , grit , and tutorials .
The resting period is not generally done by an absolute temperature -- you would have measured for ( near ) your target temperature before before taking the piece out of the oven or off the griddle or whatever . Traditionally , it should be proportional to the size of the cut or roast . 5-10 minutes is good for a steak or individual chicken pieces , depending on their thickness Medium size roasts and smaller poultry , say 10-15 minutes Large roasts and large poultry ( like a turkey ) , up to 30 minutes . If you do want to measure by temperature for more precise results , Kenji Alt of <URL> recommends based on practical experimentation , for steaks : Ideally , no matter how well-done you 've cooked your meat , you want to allow it to cool down until the very center has reached 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) . At this stage , the muscle fibers have relaxed enough that you should have no problem with losing juices . He also reviews some of the science , and various explanations for why the resting works . Cook 's Illustrated 's <URL> performed an experiment with several roasted pork loins , cutting them with no resting , or resting of 10 , 20 , 30 , and 40 minutes . They found that even a 10 minute rest cut down on juices expressed by 60 % compared to the unrested roast . They found far less difference in the roasts that were rested for longer periods , although there was continued improvement in the juice retention . They summarize ( original emphasis ) : So what to do ? Curb your enthusiasm and let your meat rest . But not for too long . The most dramatic decrease in moisture loss for these pork loins took place during the first 10 minutes of rest . Additional time helps -- but not if that means your dinner will be cold . If you 're cooking a big roast , you can wait longer -- about 30 minutes . Thin steaks should only wait 5 to 10 minutes before you dig in . This shows that the traditional advise on resting times is actually fairly effective . Note : Thanks to <URL> for sharing this reference .
It 's a matter of taste . Since your durian is already cut , as it continues to ripen ( which it will , although much more slowly than uncut fruit ) it is also rotting/fermenting ( which is desired by many ) . You do n't say where you are from , but durian season is long over in the northern hemisphere . Most durian sold in the US this time of year has been frozen . Previously frozen durian rots more rapidly and ripens less rapidly than fruit that has n't been frozen , some sources say that previously frozen durian wo n't ripen at all , only mature ( rot ) . So the bottom line for you is that you should taste your durian every 12 hours or so and put it in the freezer ( or consume it ) when it has matured to your liking . The ripening ( not rotting ) of durian is accelerated by the ethylene it produces . Since sources are not in complete agreement concerning additional ripening of previously frozen durian , keeping the pieces in a bag with ethylene may help . Most of the ethylene is produced by the husk , not the flesh of the fruit . If your fruit still has the husk , it is worthwhile to keep it in a closed bag for that reason . Whether or not the Durian still has the husk , it would n't hurt to add an apple to the bag for more ethylene . If you can , store your durian with an apple in a few separate bags , so that " tasting you go " does n't release all of the ethylene available to all of the durian . Some durian lovers go as far as to keep ripe , cut durian on the counter ; rotting away ( and producing alcohol ) for 3-4 weeks . Others prefer durian under-ripe and freshly cut .
I 'd say about 1 clove for every half-teaspoon of garlic powder . There is n't going to be anything particularly scientific about this , since garlic cloves vary in size , strength and flavor but that will be in the ballpark .
Ana it really depends what sort of a dish you are making , and what texture and flavour you are after and the nature of garlic state : chopped , crushed , minced , pounded , etc. . If you want that pungent taste of garlic to be tasted , then you could add these crushed , chopped , sliced ones into your dish in the middle stage . If you do not want to taste too much of garlic , but just to go along , then minced ones are better and you may add a vee-bit at the earlier stage of the cooking . ( I had to edit this passage as I had written it swapping the stages ) Garlic can be used for both oil based and water based dishes . Even for salads without oil ! but with some flavours of lemon/lime and salt . We usually blend one raw garlic clove ( as per the quantity ) when making guacamole !!! So are you sauteing vegetables ? Or a gravy based dish ? Should the dish go alone or with another set of course based dishes ? =) ** Update as per OP 's edit : ---------- ** I must say it is quite rare to see chefs wanting to preserve the best pungent flavours of garlic/onions ... ;) <URL> another way : its flavor changes as chemicals break down and reform into novel aromatic compounds . It also becomes sweeter as large sugars and carbohydrates break down into simpler sugars like fructose and glucose , both of which taste quite sweet to us . The key to really great garlic flavor ? Use a combination of techniques as indicated in the above article . Personally I like to do couple of things . Marinating with crushed/chopped/sliced garlic would be in your favour . The longer main-ingredients wrapped with raw garlic before cooking , the better they absorb the flavour as well as aroma . This only works for fast/short cooking dishes . <URL> It all comes down to the chemistry of ingredients and heat - not to mention the experience you may get along !
I 've noticed that salty food has somewhat of an addictive quality ; people who eat a lot of it ( i.e. fast food or other processed food ) tend to bury their meals under a mountain of salt , whereas people such as myself who do a lot of home cooking hardly use ( or want ) any . " Season to taste " means pretty much what it sounds like ; add however much salt ( and other spices ) that you , personally , like the taste of . If you have a habit of eating a lot of salty foods , then you might want to add a little less than that , for the benefit of people like me who gag at heavily-salted foods . If you use a lot of other spices , you wo n't need much salt - a few shakes of the shaker is enough . If the food is basically bland aside from the salt ( and maybe pepper ) , then you 'll need to use more . The best thing to do is add a little , then taste , and repeat as many times as it takes to get the flavour you want . If the food you 're seasoning is still raw ( and ca n't be eaten raw ) , then just put in a small amount the first time you make it and keep track of how much table salt you needed to add . Just remember , you can always add salt later , but a dish that 's too salty is permanently ruined .
A mixture of flour and water at room temperature is a very hospitable growth medium for many bacteria , yeasts , and molds ; and indefinitely is a long time ... Even if you are extremely vigilant when it comes to kitchen hygiene , the mixture will eventually start to grow some form of microbes . This process could take a week or more to become obvious . If you use the batch up within a week or so it is unlikely to cause any problems . For longer storage you should refrigerate the dough and/or add salt ( in the proportional amount you would use for bread ) . If it develops an off smell or visible mold you are better off throwing it away . Keep in mind that hydrating flour , especially whole grain flours , activates amylase enzymes that break down starches into simple sugars . This process , called autolysis , improves browning and flavor , but if allowed to go on too long it leads to a gummy crumb or poor overall structure .
end question
start question
What kind of rice is used for Jamaican rice and peas ?
I 'm by no means an official source , but it looks like a long grain rice is used . <URL> shows an example made with <URL> , and links to <URL> , which calls for long grain rice .
There are really only a few secrets to good fried rice : Day Old <URL> ( Make it the day before , let it cool , place it in the fridge ) This I 'd say is absolutely , the main thing . The texture will NOT be right if you use freshly cooked rice . There will be too much moisture . HEAT ! Your <URL> needs to be hot . You want everything to cook quickly . Cook stuff separately . This is a follow-up from 2 . You want it all to cook very quickly , a crowded pan will hinder that . Cook Meat to 80 % , take it out , cook the other stuff , add the meat back in . Do n't touch it . Unless you have a blazing professional burner , your food needs time against the wok . Put it in , leave it for a bit , mix it some more . Fish Sauce &amp; Chinese Sausage They add great flavour . If it all seems complicated , it really is n't . Use day old rice &amp; give it lots of heat . Here are a couple of recipes that give further detail and have great explanations : <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Rasa Malaysia
Yeah , I would agree with the people in the comments , and make the assumption that it had to do with concentrating the ethylene gas from the bananas . After a bit of googling , it looks like the rice bag trick might be popular because it apparently results in a nearly ideal , stable environment for ripening . I imagine that the rice would keep the moisture level at a lower point , the bag would contain the gas , and the mass of the rice would decrease the temperature variants ( assuming that is conducive to ripening ) I found an informative article which mentioned rice bags here : <URL>
You need to use Kali Jeera rice available in most Patel stores or big indian stores . We were also looking for this and avoiding Kali Jeera thinking it is some black rice whereas it is not . This is rice used in Nor Malabar chicken biriyanis . And no need to mention that ghee rice or biriyani prepared with Kali Jeera rice tastes way better than normal Basmati rice .
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
Cream sherry is very sweet - likely too sweet for most recipes that do n't explicitly mention it . If a recipe simply calls for " sherry " , it usually means dry sherry , as that 's the most common kind of available . In fact , I do n't think I 've ever even seen " very dry " around here . So I would definitely stick with the dry . As for brand , I believe that sherry is the brand ( somebody correct me if I 'm wrong ) . If you see several different bottles all labeled sherry , I do n't think it matters too much which one you pick - at least if you 're using it for cooking and not drinking . P.S. . If you 're using this as a substitute for rice wine , the commonly-accepted substitute is indeed dry sherry .
You might try red wine vinegar , or a rice wine vinegar perhaps , maybe even balsamic ( I would go young , but I do n't think this will taste good ) . You might just be missing a touch of sweetener like honey or sugar to cut the acid . Depending on how up tight the chef is , they may tell you their recipe , chances are you 're not going to get the same thing from store bought pesto as almost certainly some of the oil was subbed for the acid , or maybe more oil would have been added . Pesto , also as a rule , tastes better fresh and only takes few seconds to whip up . I recommend talking to the restaurant owner or executive chef , and see if they 're willing to divulge their pesto recipe . Also , searching Google for Pesto Vinegrette tells me you 're at least on the right track : <URL>
I usually use 1/4 cup per person for a smallish portion , and 1/3 cup per person if you 're a bit hungrier . You 'll probably want to check the instructions for your rice cooker to check exactly how much water you should add as different manufacturers vary . I believe the one I used in the past needed an equal quantity of water to rice .
Garlic flavors are soluble in oil , simply chopping up garlic and putting it in with the rice will not distribute the flavor well . I would recommend you chop the garlic finely and then infuse into a tablespoon of oil or butter by putting the pan on very low heat for a few minutes . Then add the rice and stir to coat the grains with the infused oil before adding water and cooking as normal . How much garlic to use depends on how strong your garlic is and how garlic-y you want it to taste . 5 tbsp of rice is n't much , for a medium garlic flavor using average strength garlic a whole small clove or half a large is probably enough . With the garlic I grow I 'd add a few slices from a clove at most . Another option would be to cook the rice and then stir in the garlic infused oil afterwards , The benefits to this option are that you can drain the rice after cooking without all the flavor going down the drain .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
In cooking rice or many other grains ( and even some grain based products such as pasta ) , two things actually happen : The starches absorb water ; they are hydrated . Cooking . The boiling phase does both at the same time , very efficiently , but sufficient hydration happens before the rice is fully cooked through . So steaming to finish allows the rice to be fully cooked . If you just simmer , things would simply take longer . The reason to turn the heat down is to not burn the rice at the bottom during the steaming phase .
That is almost certainly a " best by " date , not an expiration date . <URL> calls the shelf life of uncooked white rice " indefinite " . Yes , you can cook and serve your rice assuming that it is free of contaminants .
A properly formed loaf , before it is baked , has a network of gluten strands stretched tightly around its perimeter . This network is in tension , helping maintain the shape of the loaf . There are several reasons to score the loaf : The tension in the outer network of gluten strands limits the ability of the loaf to expand , especially in the " <URL> " or final excited burst of activity that the yeast go through as the temperature of the dough rises at the beginning of baking . The score creates a slit in the network , allowing the loaf to expand , permitting more oven spring to take place . The scores provide a weak point ( due to the cut in that gluten net ) , controlling where expansion takes place oven spring proceeds . This may prevent cracks that would otherwise be unattractive . Furthermore , the score allows aesthetically pleasing shapes or patterns to created on the loaf , as the the dough exposed during oven spring will have a slightly different texture ( it is n't surrounded by the in-tension gluten network , and will have been baked slightly less as it comes to the surface of the loaf during the oven spring ) . This means it will tend to have a different ( often lighter ) color than the main crust where the in-tension network was in place . For example : ( <URL> ) Another example , taken farther for a more artistic statement : You can see the attractive pattern on the loaf from the scores ( which are also functional in the first sense ) -- the look like a leaf . ( <URL> ) . Scoring is more important and effective in free form loaves which will have good oven spring .
The non-rice paper rolls are probably made with wheat flour instead of rice flour , so they should be just as sturdy and stand up to deep frying as well or better than rice paper , which has always been fairly delicate and hard to work with in my limited experience . Here is an image of flour egg roll wrappers in their uncooked state :
<URL> variants may be boiled that long or more -- they do contain black tea , but also spices ( where the boiling is needed , to extract the flavor from whole spices ) . The tea decoction this produces does contain all of the bitter compounds , sure -- but it is mixed with spices , diluted generously with milk and sugar , and becomes a palatable drink that is nevertheless very different from the coolly and weakly brewed variety you seem to be familiar with . In fact , it is even possible that the tea was plain black tea , brewed very strongly . Served with plenty of milk and sugar to balance the bitterness , milk tea is a cultural variation . Think of it kinda like coffee , if you want -- it is bitter , but it is expected to be -- and the tea can be doctored to make it work for the drinker . Tea can be served in lots of different variations , and none are more correct than others -- just like some teas are brewed very light and almost flavorless ( japanese green , and 15 seconds per brew ) , and others are brewed to death and sweetened to balance ( southern style sweet tea ) , some are served with milk , sugar , or lemon , and still more are served with salt or butter ( tibetan ) . Boiled milk tea or chai are brewed to death , to extract all the flavor , and served sweet and milky to balance the strength and bitterness -- and a weakly brewed tea would be tasteless and vanish in the expected fixings .
Most people get burned biryani because of the rice . It must be soaked and the par cooked before going into the pot . Also the quality of the rice is important . IMO that would always be Basmati rice . I always soak my rice for an hour for any dish . The cooking vessel has to be heavy and sealed . This ensures that the cooking happens in an almost pressure cooker state inside the pot . Some people seal their pot lid with a flour dough . Cast iron pots are the best .
For this dish , you 'll probably want to use a low-end extra-light oil ( since it 's being heated quite a bit ) , and then drizzle in nicer extra virgin oil to finish the flavor after the pasta has been tossed into the cheese , oil , and spices . The rule of thumb is to have two kinds of olive oil : High-grade , richly flavored extra virgin olive oil ( for finishing ) Extra light , not extra-virgin olive oil for use as a cooking oil . You can use a cheaper oil for this -- many people choose to use a later pressing , crudo or " pure olive oil " ( in the US ) kind . The high-end oil is for adding it to sauces and drizzling on mostly-finished dishes to add that rich flavor . You 're looking for something with a lot of taste , and it 's a good idea to get small amounts of pricier oil . Getting small bottles means you 'll be using fresher , more flavorful oil because it has n't been open for long . Plus , you wo n't need much to finish dishes . Note that for this use , you want to add the oil near the end of cooking , as heat will alter and weaken the flavor . The low-end light olive oil should be of neutral or light flavor , and will be more tolerant of heating than extra-virgin . Because it has a much higher smoke point than extra-virgin grade oil , use this in recipes calling for heating up olive oil . If necessary for flavor , add some of the good stuff near the end of cooking .
Whole peas will take longer to cook than split peas , but they wo n't ruin the soup . Split peas will also break apart more to thicken the soup , while whole peas will remain mostly intact . If you want a similar effect , you could use a stick blender to partially liquefy the soup after it 's cooked .
As I understand it , it 's down to the flavour you get from frying the rice . However , it does also break down some of the starch which reduces the thickening it can do when the risotto cooks , which might cause a problem . I can attest to the flavour , but I 've not done experiments about thickening . Serious Eats had a good article on the topic though , in which such experiments were described . The solution in that was to wash the rice in the stock , then fry the rice , then add the stock containing all that undamaged free rice starch during cooking , thus giving you toasty flavour and creamy risotto with no questions asked . I have n't tried that , but it seems like a fairly sound idea to me . <URL>
Very high fat , thoroughly marbled ribeye is a good start , but there 's a fair amount of variation . The extremely thin slices are also not something that every butcher is accustomed to producing , but that should get you to the right beginning .
end question
start question
Make espresso in office kitchen - just have a kettle and microwave ?
You can get quite close , actually : <URL> will give you a decent coffee extraction . Warm up the milk in the microwave , and use a frother like <URL> to achieve a really thick and smooth latte foam . Your other option ( as <URL> ) is an electric Moka maker . I 've seen <URL> make a decent espresso and last a long time ( if instructions are followed ) . Many Italian households do n't own an espresso machine and simply go with a moka maker . Bialetti is very often the moka of choice .
I ca n't speak for the new high end machines that provide pressure profiling , or the cheap domestic machines , which work who knows how , but the standard system for distributing pressure on the coffee is the e61 group head , and most machine group heads are based off the original design . The e61 group is pretty much just a system of 3 pressure valves that allows the pressure to slowly ramp up 9 bars and then maintains that 9 bars of pressure while the pump continues to work . Some versions include other steps such as pre-infusion , or on newer high-end machines the ability to create pressure profiles which adjust the pressure at any point during the espresso shot . Also note that all the resistance HAS to come from the coffee puck , so you may be grinding too coarse or not tamping hard enough . If you need to measure the pressure from the grouphead , espresso machine techs use a device like this . You could probably make your own at home if you are so inclined .
For your average mixing task , pretty much any bowl ( of the right size , shape ) will do . Also , " plastic " is n't one material , it 's a bunch of different materials . For example , some advantages of polypropylene bowls do not apply to melamine formaldehyde bowls , but both are plastic . So , here are some advantages of a polypropylene ( PP ) bowl over a metal bowl : microwave safe high elasticity ( can be bent , and will go back to its original shape . E.g. , if you drop your PP bowl , it wo n't dent ) extremely acid-resistant extremely resistant to other chemical attacks ( e.g. , will not corrode ) plastic bowls are often made in a mold , so can be cheaply made in a variety of shapes . You can get bowls with nice pouring spouts , etc. because of this . Of course , they have disadvantages too : fats stick , almost impossible to remove all traces ( a problem when beating egg whites ) ca n't be used over a pot as a double-boiler ca n't hold very hot things ( e.g. , you can put hot oil in a metal bowl , but PP would melt . Different plastics have different melting points , some ca n't even hold boiling water . You never have to worry with stainless . ) ca n't be used in the oven And there are things which are just different , like metal conducts heat better ( so it works better when cooling in an ice bath , but also you 're much more likely to get burnt on it ) , metal is denser ( PP floats , metal does n't ) . If you get metal bowls , except for a few applications where copper is nice ( those egg whites , again ) , you want stainless steel . Stainless is fairly resistant to acid and also corrosion ( plain steel is not ) . Note that stainless comes in different grades , which vary in their corrosion , rust , and acid resistance .
Dark roast has a heavy bitter taste . As espresso usually is served pretty strong , people expect the bitter taste . Most bars serve 70/30 or 80/20 ( natural/dark roast ) blends . If the roast is made of the cheaper robusta bean , the coffee shop can save money . But , you can make an excellent espresso from 100 % natural roast arabica beans ( I do it all the time ) . People will notice the difference , even though they 're not conscious what it is .
It has nothing to do with the microwave and everything to do with the volatility of aromas and flavors in coffee . Even coffee kept warm for 4 hours wo n't taste very good . In my experience , stale brewed coffee results in a more pronounced acidity , if left out to cool , or a woody , muddy , bitter kind of flavor , sometimes with more pronounced acidity , if held warm . If you were to make a straight espresso , it 's optimal to drink it within 20-30 seconds . Brewed coffee can usually be held warm around 30 minutes before pronounced deterioration becomes obvious . A popular Japanese TV show suggested perhaps stirring a pinch of salt in to stale , reheated coffee , which may trick your tastebuds enough into tolerating it . I 've found that tactic less than adequate , but your mileage may vary . There 's a ton of information on coffee flavor compounds and other coffee-related research at : <URL>
I 've done it in the husk , when it 's fresh ( ie , the husk is n't dried out ) , but I do n't like the grassy flavors that the husk imparts . My neighbor 's clued me into a box of dry wax paper sheets to cover food for the microwave ( so I can be lazy and not have to clean the microwave as often ) , so I wrap the corn in it after it 's been husked and the silk removed . I just roll in around the corn , twist the ends like the paper wrapping on taffy , then microwave it for a few seconds . I have n't done it recently , so I ca n't remember exact times ( and the wattage of microwaves differ , anyway ) ... you just want to warm it through , though . If you were going to try to get it hot , I 'd consider dropping to medium power for a much longer time , so you do n't overly cook the outside , as I vaguely recall having an incident once .
While yes it can be done , I would n't choose to do it over another technique unless that was my only option or I just needed some chicken cooked quickly for a recipe where it is used in the cooked form and will have a lot of other flavors added ( chicken salad ) . Remember that a lot of flavor is due to browning and cooking in the microwave eliminates those flavors . At least with poaching , if the liquid is REALLY well seasoned you 'll still impart flavor . Any cooking technique can lead to tough and dry meat , including poaching where it 's being cooked submerged in hot liquid . Regardless of the technique , if the proteins heat too hot and too quickly they will constrict quickly and squeeze out the juices . The result will be tough , dry , saw-dusty chicken or other protein . This is the same thing that happens when scrambled eggs are rubbery ... cooked too long over too high of heat . The proteins act like sponges that are being wrung out . Personally I think you have much less control over meat cooked in a microwave because the cooking occurs from the inside outward and the residual heat continues to build more intensely than if it was cooked in a saute pan or on a grill . Is this something that professionals do ? No . Microwaves in a professional kitchen are mainly used for melting butter , chocolate , reheating things quickly ... much the same as I recommend people do at home . We do not use them for " cooking " . Although I do use it for sweating onions if that 's the only thing I 'd be dirtying a pan for ... put the onions in a bowl with a little butter , cover and nuke for about a minute until tender .
The exact number of cutting boards is n't critical , the important piece is minimizing cross contamination . You can use one cutting board safely as long as you 're using it in a food-safe order ( cut vegetables , then proteins ) , and follow good sanitation practices ( wash &amp; sanitize the board between ingredients ) . A quick scrub with soap and water and a spritz with a bleach , alcohol , or quat solution between ingredients will minimize your need for different boards .
If you 're drinking the espresso shot on its own , you could drink it straight from the shot glass - or , better yet , buy an <URL> , which should be about the same height as your shot glass . ( A <URL> will help keep it warm . ) If you 're pulling espresso shots to be used in other espresso-based drinks ( i.e. , if you 're adding some sort of milk or water to it ) , you could try an <URL> , which basically looks like the sort of small pitchers you 'd use to serve cream ; they 're normally about 3 oz , small enough that it would probably fit under your espresso machine . You could brew the espresso into the pitcher , then pour into your mug ; the spout/lip of the pitcher should help preserve the crema once you figure out what the optimum pouring speed is . It should work similarly to pouring steamed milk : pour too fast , and the foam and milk come tumbling out all at once and you ruin the foam , too slow and the foam gets stuck in the pitcher . But if you pour just right , you should be able to pour most of the liquid first , and wind up with just enough liquid left to slide out the foam so it lands on top of your drink .
White chocolate <URL> is at least 3.5 % milk fat and 14 % milk solids . As far as I know , the EU uses the same definition as the FDA ( US ) . So , nothing vegan can legally be sold as " white chocolate " . That said , there are a great many non-dairy white chocolate substitutes , usually made with any combination of soy milk , maltodextrin , vanilla , and saturated/hydrogenated fat ( palm oil , shortening , etc. ) , among other ingredients/additives of course . They do n't taste the same as real white chocolate , but then again , white chocolate is n't real chocolate to begin with , so it ca n't hurt to experiment with some of the products out there - which can be easily sourced with a Google search , as one of the comments indicates .
I 'm specifically answering your question " Is it okay to use a microwave in convection mode without the turntable ? " -- Yes . Your own answer points out the reality that if a pan is too large then the turn table will simply hit the sides of the microwave oven and then stop turning . There is nothing wrong with this . There is nothing wrong or damaging to have a metal tin touch the metal sides of your oven . How was your baked items bottom ? If you can sit your tin up so there is air flow under your tin , then you will improve the baking efficiency and it will bake more evenly . CAUTION : If anyone else is reading this question and wondering about their own machine , then you really need to take caution about the " convention only " mode . You have to make sure there are NO microwaves in this mode or else your metal will conduct and you could have a serious explosion or break your microwave oven .
When metal is exposed to microwave radiation , an electric potential difference can develop as the microwaves generate electric charge in parts of the metal . Flowing electricity can cause sparks as electrons migrate to places of lower potential . Solid metal is susceptible to this because its electrons are relatively loose , making it a good conductor of electricity . Calcium ( Ca ) in milk is bonded with other atoms ( mostly as calcium phosphate ) , so it does n't behave as a solid metal would : first because its electrons are secured in bonds with other atoms , and second , because the Ca atoms are not aggregated together but intermixed with nonconducting ones .
In short , kind of , but only with the proper accessories/equipment . You 'll never match a grill or griddle but you can get surprisingly close . As was mentioned in other answers , what you 're going to lose most is the sear . I was given a Corningware Microwave Browning Dish a while back and found that it actually works pretty well when you 're stuck with only a microwave . They were apparently popular when microwaves were new and exciting , but people did n't know how to use them well and they faded into oblivion . I 've seen them on sale on eBay so you might be able to find a good price there if you 're going to be stuck in the hostel for a while . The basic idea is , there 's a special kind of microwave-safe metal inside the base of the casserole . You heat this with nothing on it for 3 minutes to get it nice and hot . When you drop the patty on , it immediately sizzles . You use the microwave function to heat the inside , while the hot surface sears the outside . Although you 're likely not going to get a perfect burger , you do get a real nice Maillard reaction on the outside of both sides ( assuming you flip halfway ) and if you play with the cooking time and power ( to reduce that rubbery texture from overcooking ) , you can get something that 's ( in my opinion ) a good 75 % - quality burger compared to a griddle or grill . I actually burned pork chops on it once , that 's how hot the surface gets . As a bonus , similar to a nice Boos block , there is a gutter around the outside and the plate is slightly concave , so the juices run off into the reservoir and the burger wo n't sit in fat during the cooking . After reading the other answers ( ElendilTheTall 's specifically ) , I would think if you combined the steaming method to cook the burgers , with the microwave browning dish to sear , you could probably get a really good result . If the burgers were fully cooked via steaming you could probably heat the dish and sear the burgers without even turning the microwave on ( except to heat the casserole initially ) . I believe Alton Brown did an episode where he talked about a specific type of brick that you can find at most hardware stores which is microwave-safe for the same searing purpose , but I ca n't find that info right now .
What you 've got there , is a Moka pot . They are unable to produce the amount of pressure that gives the Espresso its character , in particular the crema . I have owned several , and all of them have had this happen . That has had no impact on the flavour or mouth feel .
It depends on what the bees had for lunch :) . Acacia honey is extremely sweet , with no bitter aftertaste . Chestnut honey ( easy to find in Italy , do n't know about elsewhere ) is dark and has a strong bitter note . I personally love how the bittersweet goes with butter and bread , but some people hate it . Generic polyflower honey usually does not have a bitter note .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
Do you like your noodles swimming in water ? If not , drain them .
I 'm going to propose a different cooking method that 's closer to cooking it on the stovetop ; gnocchi when cooked wrong can be quite dense . It 's still edible , but it 's not as enjoyable . take your cooking vessel , and heat up your cooking liquid ( I 'd go with just water , as we do n't know how much liquid it 's going to absorb , and we do n't want too runny of a sauce ) Float a toothpick in it , or something else microwave safe . ( note : this is for safety ... we need nucleation points so you do n't get scalded in step # 5 ) Microwave on high 'til boiling ** Remove the toothpick Add the gnocci Microwave on high 'til boiling again Microwave on low until floating . Drain Add sauce Microwave to warm the sauce . ** as you said you had a combination water cooler/heater , you can start with hot water , and skip steps 2 through 4 .
It depends on what you mean by gluten-free flour . If you are buying a gluten-free flour mix that it labeled for all-purpose use then you should be able to substitute that and get a reasonably good result . Substituting straight rice or almond flour in a standard recipe will not work well , because the mixes have a blend of ingredients designed to make it perform similar to flour . It may take some recipe/flour experimentation to get it as close to what you are used to , but will definetly make something edible . There are also various almond-flour based pancake recipes which work well .
White sugar was commonly used as a preservative in the past , in much the same way as salt . It 's wildly hygroscopic ( like salt ) , and an excellent desiccant , so if you packed something in it , it would accelerate the drying process . This is actually the origin of fruit jam and fruit preserves , which are still common today , even after better methods of preservation are available . Salt was more common simply because many things like eating/living in WET sugar , so you had to be careful with how much water was in the thing you were trying to preserve . But as long as the sugar was dry it 's an extremely hostile environment for bacteria and little crawly things . Kept dry , it will last forever .
end question
start question
Can I mix multiple types of pudding powder ?
Unless the package instructions are very different , yes that should be fine . A typical pudding mix will consist of starch the main ingredient , required to thicken the liquid ( typically milk ) sometimes sugar especially for the " instant " types , others let you add sugar separately flavourings sometimes " the real deal " like vanilla , often artificial . sometimes extra goodies like chocolate shavings or caramel crumbs for an interesting mouth-feel sometimes additives like food colourings or preservatives not really neccessary , IMHO . ( A very basic pudding mix would be corn starch and cocoa powder , btw . ) So if you combine mixes , you combine starch with two ( or more ) different flavourings , which will be absolutely fine . Just read the labels to make sure you are adding the correct amount of milk etc. .
Agar is not a good choice for pudding because it makes a brittle gel and it wo n't melt in your mouth at body temperature . What you want for pudding is a starch based thickener . What we call pudding in the US at least is typically thickened with cornstarch . Modified starches like Ultra-Tex 3 can also work well . Are you thinking of something more along the lines of panna cotta , which does normally have gelatin in it ? If so , you might try carageenan instead of agar . Here 's a recipe that looks promising : <URL>
This is a complex question , because there are several different ways to categorize soy sauces : COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ( Chinese and Japanese are the ones most commonly contrasted -- but as you saw in Wikipedia , there are many more ) , COLOR ( light , dark , white ) , VISCOSITY ( thin , thick , jam ) , and MANUFACTURING PROCESS ( This has the most name variation , but there are just two options : fermented or chemical . Fermented is the " real thing " and also is called naturally brewed , or slow-aged . Chemical is the quick and , as usual , inferior-tasting alternative that abbreviates a months-long process into several short , chemically-laden days . Additional names for this unfortunate approach are non-brewed , non-fermented , and artificial . To avoid this type , <URL> and avoid anything containing those non-savory corrective ingredients like corn syrup and caramel coloring . ) To muddy the waters further , add into the mix the fact that flavor is most deeply influenced by the proportion of soybeans to grains -- yet this crucial factor is not typically used directly as a categorization tool . To focus my research , I tried to find a site that felt as though the writer was speaking directly to you : one that would encourage , and not overwhelm or confuse , as you decide whether to become a soy sauce affectionado . Specifically , I wanted a resource that clearly addressed FLAVOR PROFILE and USAGE . Surprisingly , a blogger named Barbara came to rest as my # 1 recommendation : <URL> . I like the simplicity and clarity of her writing style , as well as her experiential platform ( complete with honest explanation of her biases ) . The endless comments after her post provide additional insights that might be helpful , as well . Of course , <URL> always provides wonderful more scientifically-based , yet still somehow understandable , explanations . He takes 5 full pages ( 496-500 ) in his book <URL> to discuss soy sauce in all its layered glory .
Instant pudding contains a significant amount of cornstarch . It also contains less significant amounts of disodium phosphate and tetrasodium phosphate . All three of these ingredients will have an effect on cake . Starch absorbs water and gels during baking . This interferes with gluten formation to some degree . If you break down the starch in flour , which is , in part , how you make cake flour , the starches are more able to do this job . Cornstarch is nearly all starch . Adding it to your cake will make your flour behave more like cake flour , while increasing your cake 's hydration . The phosphates also affect your cake , but to a lesser degree . Depending on the other ingredients in your cake , they will act as a leavening agent that will help to prevent the addition of all that pudding from making your cake too heavy . Many bakers rely on a secret trick that you might try instead of pudding . They replace two tablespoons of flour in any cake recipe with cornstarch . I do this not only in cakes , but in pie dough .
Harold McGee tackled alkaline noodles a while back . He found that baking baking soda actually changes it from sodium bicarbonate to sodium carbonate . This is a reasonable substitute for the kansui called for in alkaline noodles and can be substituted 1:1 in recipes . The noodles may not get AS yellow as they would with both alkalines present in kansui but it 's a small price to pay for not having to hunt down that ingredient . <URL> The key part : Just spread a layer of soda on a foil-covered baking sheet and bake it at 250 to 300 degrees for an hour . You 'll lose about a third of the soda 's weight in water and carbon dioxide , but you gain a stronger alkali . Keep baked soda in a tightly sealed jar to prevent it from absorbing moisture from the air . And avoid touching or spilling it . It 's not lye , but it 's strong enough to irritate .
My wife loves bacon that 's cooked to the cusp of burning , so I 've got a good knowledge of the properties of bacon on that fine line . It 's so brittle , you can powder it very easily . I myself would probably just stick it in a plastic bag , and whack it a few times with a pan , but I do n't see any reason why you could n't put it in the blender . I have a nice mortar and pestle I use for powdering things , but that 's probably overkill in this case .
You could switch to a recipe that uses all of the rice , instead of just infusing it . Here is an example : <URL> .
A 9 " round pan that is 1 1/2 " deep takes 6 cups of batter , while one that is 2 " deep takes 8 . That 's for totally full to the brim . This <URL> says about the amount of batter from a box : An average 2-layer cake mix yields 4 to 5 1/2 cups of batter . and should have a bunch of helpful guides to using batter for non-standard pans .
Fish sauce ! I think the clam juice is probably already a substitute for fish sauce anyway , so it should make a very good substitute . ( If you look up recipes for Thai beef salad you 'll find tons of things with fish sauce , and probably not much with clam juice . ) You probably want to use less , though , maybe starting with 2-4 tablespoons , though I 've seen recipes using more . It should be fine for the dietary restriction too ; it 's just made with anchovies , not an unknown blend of seafood , but of course check the label just in case .
Taste them . Bouillon cubes contain enough salt to preserve them from spoilage , but the flavor ( which , after all , is why you 're using them ) may weaken , dull , and change over the years . If you still like their flavor , then go ahead and use them .
From experience I 'd say those 6 months do n't stack . You could have 6 months in the jar , or 6 months in the freezer - very soon after defrosting the flavour would die out . If you have to freeze I would recommend using it straight from the freezer , if you can avoid it clumping . The overall potency is degrading from the moment it 's picked ! But realistically from the moment of grinding , as the oils in the ingredient are slowly seeping and evaporating out of the grain . Why not make smaller batches more regularly ? That 's what I do for garam masala , mixing a new batch every 3 months or so . I would always recommend oven drying spices / peppers very low for a long time - say 2 - 3 hours at 100C ( 212F ) . Wet ingredients could be dried in the same way , else added at the time you are going to cook with them .
I looked at the first 8 recipes that came up on a Google search . All but one just said " Dry White Wine " . One said , " dry white wine , such as Sauvignon Blanc " . So , I would say that 's your answer . Any dry white wine will do , perhaps Sauvignon Blanc might be ideal .
<URL> has a vast amount of information on beer styles . To answer your specific question , an ale is top-fermenting whereas a lager is bottom-fermenting . Lagers are generally fermented at lower temperatures than ales . I believe that lambics would constitute a third category , since they are traditionally fermented by wild yeasts , but opinion may vary on this , I do n't know . There are dozens of styles of ales and lagers and a few different lambics , but the method of fermentation is the main distinguishing characteristic between the three types .
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
Brown/black mustard seed is hotter and more intense than yellow . So , powdered mustard seed that is predominantly brown/black is going to pack quite a wallop compared to powdered yellow mustard seed . In the US , recipes calling for powdered mustard are going to expect you to use yellow . See <URL> for an interesting article on the subject .
The closest thing is to combine equal parts of ground cinnamon , cloves , nutmeg , and black pepper .
If you want more gravy you need to add more liquids and natural flavours . Better if you have bone but ... no bone : Before you roast your beef sear it , so it has good colour when it comes out , deglaze the pan/baking tray with water/red wine/white wine or Madeira one of me faves and put that to one side . ( in the gravy stock pot ) Add onions , carrots and parsnips in with the beef , and touch of water , olive oil and salt . Do n't go mad with the water you 're not poaching the beef !! Just enough to stop the veg burning - 5mm in the bottom ( top up if needed ) . When the beef is ready ( 55C internal temp = medium rare <URL> ) take it out of the tray , put the root veg to one side and and add the remains to your gravy stock pot . Sear the bottom of the roast with a little oil ( it 'll be a bit soggy from sitting in the veg ) then put it aside to rest ( 5-10 mins if you 're in a hurry 15-30 for 3kg will come out lush ! ) deglaze again adding the resulting jus to your stock pot , which now had a wealth of flavour . Use that stock pot to create a beast of a gravy ! Make it in the usual manner , if you keep the onions in they 'll make it thicker and tastier - a stick blender with give you a smoother texture if that 's what you like !
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
Coconut oil has a low smoke point ( 177-204C depending on processing ) . Ghee has a smoke point of 252C . The effect of this is that it will be quite hard to stop the oil burning . But that 's not to say it would be impossible - softening onions and garlic in butter or olive oil is common , and they have lower smoke points still . But the texture from frying at a lower temperature will be quite different . It may also affect the flavour of your spices . In addition , the coconut oil will change the character of your curry significantly . That may not be a bad thing . ( all figures from <URL> )
end question
start question
Difference between boiling and steaming vegetables ?
To boil vegetables , you add the vegetables to a pot of water , and boil the water for a short duration until the vegetables are sufficiently cooked . One may add salt or other flavorings ( such as broth , as you mentioned ) to the water prior to boiling . Steamed vegetables are cooked in a steamer basket , where the vegetables are not in the water , but are instead sitting above the water , and are thus cooked by steam . Salt must be added to steamed vegetables after they are cooked rather than to the water prior to cooking , since salt does not evaporate . Steamed vegetables can retain more of their original flavor and nutrients , since they do not leech out into the water during boiling . On the other hand , you can not add additional flavors to your vegetables during steaming -- since flavors can not soak into the vegetables from the water , either . Which taste/texture you prefer , of course , can be a matter of personal opinion . In my experience , boiled vegetables are often mistakenly referred to as steamed vegetables . And often , many restaurants will sell " steamed vegetables " which are really just microwaved frozen vegetables , which may strictly be steamed ( it certainly is n't boiled ! ) , but really bears little resemblance to the true steaming process ( and has relatively poor flavor , as well ) .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
Gazpacho is possibly Spain 's most famous chilled soup . The main difference aside form the temperature is that it 's raw , meaning that the soup is not actually cooked it 's just blended and chopped vegetables and occasionally bread . There is nothing inherently wrong with heating up gazpacho but it would lose its fresh texture and flavour which is why it 's chilled and according to Wikipedia was popular with labourers who used it to : " cool off during the summer and to use available ingredients such as fresh vegetables and stale bread " The main reason you could n't just chill a normal soup and call it gazpacho is because gazpacho is made up of by no means just tomato . It contains tomatoes , a bit of garlic , cucumber , occasionally bread , some vinegar for tang and a drizzle of olive oil at the end . If you wanted to make it your own ( after all you 're the chef ! ) you could add some Tabasco , bell peppers , spring onions or croutons at the end , basically anything you might find in a salsa dip . Use your common sense for what not to add but even in Spain they have variations that are not at all like what I would think of as gazpacho : in La Mancha they use it like a stew and add game ( usually rabbit ) and even wild mushrooms ! Hope this helps and gives you some inspiration , if you want a recipe a quick search on Google gives a multitude of <URL> .
Pure glucose is significantly thicker than a sugar syrup you would make on your own . It 's even thicker than honey . At the previous restaurant I was at , we would use glucose in some limited applications when making certain kinds of caramel sauces ( sorry , I did n't steal any recipes before I left ) , as ( if I recall correctly ) it has a higher tolerance for heat , and provides sweetness without caramelizing at the same temperatures as table sugar .
Yes there is a significant difference between the two . I would put them at pretty close to opposite ends of the coffee spectrum . French Press : Generally made with a coarse grind , longer steeping time . Result is a weaker ( less concentrated ) more typical American style coffee . This will likely be consumed in the same way as a typical filtered , drip coffee would . Moka Pot : Made with a much finer grind . And while many will argue it 's not true espresso . It is much closer to being an espresso . I do n't really care what you call it , but it 'll be a much stronger more robust coffee . The same amount of coffee will be extracted to a smaller quantity of water . This would be consumed in the same way as an espresso would . You can water it down to make an Americano , etc. . .
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
The difference for green onions will be most noticable if you do n't cook them . Instead , slice them up and use them for a garnish over the dish . The white portion of the green onion will still be oniony , but not quite as strong as a raw red onion . Slice them thinly and use for garnish if you really want to bring out the onion qualities of them . If you do n't want it too strong , then add them when you 're cooking . ( and you might not want to slice them as thin ) . The green portion gives a more mild onion taste but also some of the grassy quality that you might get from chives . I treat them like a fresh herb , chop them up , and add in them in the last minute of cooking or I do n't cook them at all . As for substitution ... I 'd only plan to do it if you were cooking for someone who did n't like onions , as they 're milder and come in smaller portions than bulb onions , so it 's easier to control amounts without any waste . ... and I 'd do it if I had them on hand but did n't have bulb onions around . If you 're just looking for a good way to feature the green onions -- grill them . Trim the ends off , clean off any dirt , give them a coat of oil , then toss them on a hot pan or grill . They make a great side dish . Other good uses are to add them into scrambled eggs , green onion pancakes , or press them into naan before cooking it . ... For the white onions , the opposite is true -- they 're generally stronger than red onions . Most people do n't serve it as a raw garnish unless it 's very thinly sliced and used in small amounts . It 's still used raw , but it tends to be blended into other things such as pico de gallo , or guacamole , where the pungency of the onion helps to balance out the sweetness of the tomatoes or richness of the avocado . I 'm having difficulty thinking of a dish where the qualities of the white onion would stand out , though . My only idea is french onion soup , because it just comes out lacking if you make it with sweeter red or yellow onions ... but unless you made them side by side and compared them , I do n't know that you 'd see the difference . You might try cooking them slowly over medium heat until they caramelize ... it 'd let you feature the onions without them being overwhelming , and it brings out some of their more interesting qualities .
Chapathi or Roti is made from wheat flour usually in all of the Indian homes . Chapathi is usually bigger in size than Phulka . both sides are cooked on pan . Some people apply oil/ghee after completely cooking it but when it is not on the pan but while eating . Roti / chapati is usually not made to swell up , especially if it is rolled comparatively thick . Bubbles do appear in the roti / chapati when steam forms in some places . The word ' Roti ' is used commonly in north , central and east India , whereas ' Chapati ' is used more in west ( Mumbai ) , and south India . Only in south India Chapati is fried in a bit of oil ! Elsewhere , only a Paratha is fried with oil or ghee Paratha is something which can be stuffed paratha or non stuffed paratha . Stuffed parartha is like Aloo Paratha , Methi Paratha and it is cooked on a pan too but oil/ghee/butter is applied while cooking on a pan . Non stuffed paratha is you make a puree of spinach or fenugreek with different spices and add it while preparing the dough itself . And then it is cooked on pan . Paratha ( plain , folded or stuffed ) is made from an unleavened dough of wholewheat flour , and shallow fried with a little oil / ghee / butter . Parathas generally stay soft and moist even when cold . Yes , certainly sometimes meaning differs with context to people and region , though there may not be much difference in preparing it.Triangle Shape has nothing to do with the Taste or Texture , it deals more with Presentation . Oil indeed influences the flavor &amp; texture of dough . The " moistness " of the Parathas - the soft texture - is actually from oils and fats . Adding in extra fat , such as oil , butter , shortening , makes the Parathas seem extra moist and soft .
There is considerable overlap between cupcakes and muffins . Method From a technical point of view , muffins are made by the muffin method , making them small quickbreads . In the muffin method , the wet ingredients are combined in one bowl ; and the dry ingredients are combined in another bowl . Then the two are quickly incorporated together with minimal mixing to avoid gluten development . This gives muffins a somewhat coarse crumb . Cupcakes are small cakes , and are made by one of the traditional cake methods such as the creaming method , the reverse creaming method , the genoise method , the chiffon method , and so on . They tend to have a finer crumb than muffins . Contrast While no single criterion distinguishes a muffin from a cupcake if you do not adopt the technical definition above , the following trends exist : Cupcakes tend to be sweeter than muffins ; there are savory muffins such as cornbread Cupcakes are often iced or frosted , whereas muffins tend to have no topping , or a simple crumb topping Cupcakes usually have a head or top no larger than the body of the cupcake ; muffins are often encouraged to overflow their baking cup , so that their top is larger in diameter , giving them somewhat of a mushroom shape Cupcakes are almost always , well , cupcake shaped ; muffins can be made as just muffin tops Cupcakes are almost never crispy or crunchy ; muffins are often encouraged to brown and develop texture , especially on the tops
Wash the shrimp and remove only the head . Insert a bamboo skewer along the shrimp from head to tail , running along the legs without touching flesh Drop into boiling , salted water for 3-5 minutes ( do not put a lid on ) ; after this period , they 'll change color and rise to the top . If they feel firm , they are cooked . Quickly place them into ice water , which helps them have good color and stops the flesh from shrinking and becoming hard . When shrimp are cold , remove from ice water and drain in a colander . To remove the skewer , use a screwing motion . For nigiri-sushi : Remove shell from around body , but not the tail . Butterfly cut open , cutting from head to tail along the belly with the knife only going halfway in . Use the knife or your fingers to open it up and flatten it carefully , without further breaking the flesh . Remove vein and rinse with lightly salted water . Lay on papertowels to drain . If using for sushi rolls , remove tail and cut in half lengthwise .
If the cocktail is from the 1800 's it 's just the place of origin . Nowadays the two are both fairly strong rums . They taste almost the same except the Jamaican Rum ( where I live ) is cheaper .
" Filter " coffee in general , is coffee beans that have been roasted and ground and is for use in coffee making machines . This makes ' fresh ' coffee that may have a variety of qualities not found in instant - such as sweeter or more distinct flavours , etc. . " Instant " coffee is normally a coffee that has already been made ( they had the fun already ! ) and is dried ( usually through freezing ) into a dehydrated state , hence we just add water and get coffee . I would think that most people who have drunk proper ( freshly made ) coffee would prefer the flavour , quality and effects from caffeine , over that of instant . For me , instant is a back up , in case the real stuff runs out , but I feel always tastes a little woody and not as satisfying in terms of a caffeine hit . There are several coffees available now - Kenco Millicano is one - that offer both instant and some kind of coffee bean , but all I see is coffee grinds in the bottom of the cup , and not much difference in flavour .
Offal is a general term for any parts of the animal 's innards which are not the conventional cuts from the muscle and bone . It would vary by cuisine , but could include liver , kidneys , heart , brains , stomach , or tongue . Those particularly fussy about what they eat might even extend it to things like tail and neck , although most would n't regard these as offal per se . Tripe , on the other hand , refers specifically to the stomach . It 's usually washed , and often bleached , then slow cooked , although again , the preparation varies by region . Common tripe dishes come from the stomachs of cow and sheep , and despite falling out of favour as a cheap alternative to regular meat , it 's still quite popular in some parts of Europe .
This question has become blown out of proportion . I was just curious - then I started getting answers that quickbreads and cake are the same thing - which they " obviously " are n't . So I started doing my own research . <URL> says that the term quickbread was probably invented in the US after the discovery of chemical leavening . The Wikipedia references and some dictionaries corroborate this definition . Basically anything leavened with soda is quickbread . This does n't work . There are a great many things leavened with soda that ca n't be called quickbread . A good example is plain old <URL> . Obviously this is a semantic issue but one that needed solving . Two American cookbooks that I consider canonical recipe resources , The Joy of Cooking , and the Better Homes and Gardens cookbook , both have a separate quickbread section . In it are a variety of fruit breads as well as some biscuits and scones . On Food and Cooking muddied the water a bit by differentiating between quick breads such as biscuits and batter breads such as banana bread . These were grouped together , however , and contrasted against cakes . This book says that cakes are higher in fat and sugar and have a more delicate texture . Ratio , as linked <URL> , confused the terms a bit more also including a term " quick cake " but it differentiated between the different products with distinct ratios for the flour , fat , and sugar . With several competing definitions I decided to take an unscientific poll . I called 6 friends in Washington , Utah , Georgia , and Texas . I tried to find a variety of American cultures . Obviously it is biased by the fact that I know all of them . When asked " What is quickbread to you ? " without exception all of them replied " banana bread " When I followed up with : " What is the difference between that and cake " I received the following answers : " It is eaten at breakfast " " It has less sugar " " It is loaf shaped " " It is more dense " " It has a more open texture " My conclusion is that the historical definition of " anything with soda " is no longer useful . In cookbooks it seems to now be applied to chemically risen baked goods that : have as a rule of thumb a particular ratio of flour , fat , and sugar have less sugar than cake refers in particular to fruit breads , biscuits , and scones generally has an irregular vs uniform texture The popular definition ( among my extremely limited , unrandom sampling ) adds : tends to be loaf shaped And now I can sleep easily again .
It mostly depends on the heat used . If you are cooking at a high enough heat that vegetables and thinly-sliced meats ( if using ) are cooked through in only a few minutes then it matches with the term generally used as " <URL> " . In this heat , if you stop stirring even for a moment , pretty much , the food at the hottest part of the pan ( at the base , near the flame ) will start to burn . It needs to be in motion constantly . That 's the stir part of the stir-fry -- constant motion up the curved sides where it is cooler and letting other parts of the food go to the bottom to the heat and around and around . A full dish of meat , veg , noodles , etc can be completely cooked start to finish in just about 5 minutes . <URL> demonstrates stir-frying baby bok choy in 2 1/2 minutes of cooking time for the veg , <URL> for 2 minutes , and <URL> at 3-5 minutes . <URL> should also be at a fairly high heat and generally with less oil ( although stir-frying does n't use a lot of oil either , usually ) . The heat is lower than what is implied by stir-fry . With sautéing you are still generally keeping things moving , but it does n't need to be quite as frantic . You can let things stop a moment , and it can help to let them start to brown and caramelize . To demonstrate , <URL> for sautéed baby bok choy cooks them for 7 minutes , <URL> for 9-11 minutes , <URL> cooking it for 4 minutes . The fastest of these is twice as slow as most of the the stir-fry or about the same as the slowest stir-fry . The slowest of these sauté recipes is nearly 3-5 times as slow as the stir-fry with fairly similar ingredients , especially similar to the slowest of the stir-fry recipes . But to be fair , <URL> I was , strictly speaking , abusing the term sautéing by conflating it with even more moderate temperatures ( which are more properly simply called " pan frying " ) . A kadai is a good implement to use for stir-frying , but a kadai can also be used for cooking at a slightly lower temperature . Simply using a kadai does not 100 % determine the end result will be either a stir-fry or a sauté or a gentle fry , or even deep-frying . It 's a versatile vessel . :-)
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
I have a bottle of San-J Tamari ( black label ) in my fridge and the back reads : Tamari is a premium soy sauce made with more soybeans than ordinary soy sauce giving it a richer , smoother , more complex taste . Tamari has more flavor enhancing properties than salt . Add 1 tsp . ( 320 mg sodium ) instead of tsp . salt ( 590 mg sodium ) to reduce sodium intake . Stir-fry or marinate poultry , meat fish and vegetables . Add 1-2 tsp . to perk up sauces , soups , gravies and casseroles . In my experience , I use a little less tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . As Sean mentioned , it 's definitely a bit stronger than regular soy sauce . I eyeball most of the time , but I 'd say I use 1/2 to 3/4 portion of tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . I reach for the tamari when I want a bit more of a complex flavor on something plain like rice - when the soy sauce is to be the star of the dish , essentially . I tend to use regular soy sauce when mixing into a larger homemade sauce or where the soy sauce flavor will blend into the background because the recipe calls for so many other strong ingredients . Oh , and tamari seems to add a bit of an almost " smoky " flavor , it seems .
Coriander leaf/cilantro looks VERY similar to flat leaf parsley . When I have both at the house I sometimes resort to smelling them to know which is which . Cilantro is very strong smelling , and you 'd definitely change the flavor of the dish if you left it out . Flat leaf parsley is significantly more subtle and has a much milder flavor and scent . It is not flavorless , and in a recipe that calls for a lot of it , you 'd really be missing something by leaving it out . When you 've got a recipe that calls for both parsley and cilantro , you 're definitely going to be more able to taste/smell the cilantro more than parsley , but they 'll both contribute different notes . If you have to leave one out , leave out the parsley , but do n't try to make up the volume with more cilantro , as you may wind up overpowering your dish . Just leave the parsley out and proceed as normal . Do not use curly leave parsley in anything -- it is tough and virtually flavorless . It is ONLY a garnish and not worth wasting your time on .
Traditionally <URL> used radiant heat to cook meat . This would have taken place over an open flame , typically on a rotating <URL> . In modern times this method is now called <URL> . Modern roasting refers to dry heat cooking that takes place in an oven , the food is cooked by <URL> . Until the late 19th century this method was referred to as baking . <URL> is essentially the same as roasting in modern times . Baking most often refers specifically to the cooking of " baked goods " ( breads , pastries , etc. ) . However , the terms baking and roasting are often used interchangeably ( baked chicken , roast chicken ) . There does n't seem to be a hard and fast rule here as to which term is used . For example , you roast asparagus , turkey , chicken , but bake lasagna , casseroles , and also chicken . <URL> uses a combination of moist and dry heat to cook the food . This is what occurs in a crock pot , or in dutch oven/stock pot in the oven . Your meat will be cooked in an ample amount of seasoned liquid such as wine and/or stock . <URL> I had never heard of before . According to Wikipedia it 's a trademarked method of pressurized deep frying . I doubt this is what you were referring to .
Potato pancakes are held together , usually with egg , sometimes flour as well . Hash Browns are usually just the potato , maybe onion and seasonings .
end question
start question
Is cooking a raw steak in the microwave safe ?
Yes , it is safe . It is really more a question of quality . I would suggest that , in your specific situation you get a browning dish . ( It would be something that you could still use after your move , if you like . ) Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . There is nothing like a charbroiled steak straight off the grill . But for the times when you do n't want to fire up the grill - or even get the broiler dirty - there is a way to sear steaks in the microwave on an accessory called a browning dish . A microwaved steak will not brown well without one , and the dish is really the only acceptable way to brown in the microwave . Browning dishes can be either flat rectangular plates or black skillets that are designed for the microwave . Embedded in the plate or skillet are metal strips that cause the microwaves to couple or link , producing an electrical current . The dish also is coated with a metal that is resistant to the electrical current . You can read the rest of the article and the how-to information by following the link .
Do you like your noodles swimming in water ? If not , drain them .
There is no single answer to this question . Instead , a number of factors ( not including the weather ) affect the perceived tenderness or moistness of a steak or other cut of meat . Overview There are two major factors that effect the perceived moistness of a steak or other cut of meat : The amount of connective tissue . The more connective tissue the meat has , the tougher and chewier it will be , at least until the collagen that composes the connective tissue is converted to gelatin The temperature to which the cut is cooked . The higher the temperature , up to about 165 F , the more different types of proteins are denatured and coagulated , squeezing out moisture , leading to a dryer , tougher mouth feel . Additionally , some minor factors contribute to or enhance perceived tenderness or moistness : Cutting the meat against the grain enhances the perception of tenderness . Marinating in an acid or enzymatically active marinade may enhance tenderness Mechanically processing , cutting , or pounding the meat ( as in a cube steak ) to disrupt its fibers can enhance tenderness . Connective Tissue The more an animal uses a muscle , the more connective tissue that muscle will contain . For example , the shoulder of the animal is usually worked very hard ( it has to keep the animal standing up ) for pigs and cows , so it has a low of connective tissue . Other muscles are used rarely , such as the tenderloin , and do n't develop very much connective tissue . The connective tissue is composed of a protein called collagen , which is tough and rubbery , and makes cuts high in it seem much tougher than those which are not . However , with certain types of cooking , collagen can be converted to gelatin , and convert from being tough to being unctuous and soft . Temperature As the temperature in the steak rises , more and more proteins tighten and denature , squeezing out moisture , resulting in a drier , tougher mouth feel . Various groups of proteins denature at different temperatures , so the higher the internal temperature , the more moistness will be squeezed out , and the drier and tougher the steak will seem . By the time the cut reaches about 165 F , all of the proteins are denatured , and it is fully well done , and as tough as it will be . According to <URL> : 122 ° F - Myosin protein in mammal meat begins to denature . 130-135 ° F - Target temp for medium rare lamb chops and beef steaks , the temperature at which they are at optimum tenderness , flavor , and juiciness . 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . 140 ° F - Collagens begin to contract and squeeze juice from within muscle fibers into the spaces between the fibers and out to the surface . 140 ° F - Myoglobin denatures rapidly and red or pink juices begin to turn clear or tan and bead up on the surface . 150 ° F - Actin protein begins to denature making meat tougher and drier . 155 ° F - Well done for most meats . Most ( but not all ) bacteria killed in less than 30 seconds but spores can survive to much higher temps . High Connective Tissue Cuts When cuts are high in connective tissue , the same toughening and drying that occurs in low connective cuts happens as the internal temperature rises to about 165 F. However , starting at about 170-180 F , a new process begins to engage : the collagen ( the very protein that made these cuts tougher to start with ) begins to transform in the presense of water into gelatin , a different protein . The gelatin lubricates the meat , and gives it a newly unctuous and moist mouth-feel , despite being very well done . It takes time for gelatin conversion to occur : it is not enough to simply bring the internal temperature to 180 F . It has to stay there for several hours for the conversion to have enough time to take place . This gelatin conversion is what makes slow cooking methods like braising and barbecuing so effective for tough cuts of meat . They are cooked until quite well done ( when they would be extremely tough ) , but then the conversion of the collagen to gelatin makes them much softer , and unctuous , so that they are again perceived as moist and tender . Sadly , it will not work on cuts that were fairly tender to begin with , as there is little collagen to convert to gelatin . Slicing Against the Grain Additionally , while a minor factor , the way the meat is cut into bite sized portions also effects the perception of toughness . Muscles are bundles of cells that are aligned in the same direction , like a bundle of straws . They are very , very strong in the direction that the fibers align ( along the straws ) , but not as strong against that direction ( across the straws ) . If sliced against the direction of the grain of the meat , so that the straws are cut in half , the the impression is that the meat is more tender . For example , in fajitas , the traditional flank steak or skirt steak is cooked to no more than medium rare to medium ( to minimize the toughness
In the past when I 've cooked in the ground I put rocks into the fire . Do n't really know what sort of rocks , but I 've been involved in sessions that use bricks . Point is that you needs some way to " envelope " the heat around the thing you are cooking so what we did was put the rocks into the fire to heat them up . Carefully remove the rocks before putting the lamb in and then put the hot rocks on top of the hessian covered meat before putting the dirt back on top . Let it sit for a while and you should get a much more even result
I go into a lot of detail regarding steakhouse quality steaks in <URL> . Excerpt : Any steak you buy in the grocery store is minimally wet aged . The finest steakhouses dry age their beef . The difference ? Wet aging consists of simply vacuum packing the meat ( as in a whole side of cow ) and refrigerating it for about a week . After that , it 's cut smaller and sold to stores . Dry aging is a more complicated and expensive process . Dry aged beef is hung for at least two weeks in a refrigerator . Moisture in the meat is allowed to escape and evaporate , which concentrates the beef flavor of the beef . The beef also grows a moldy rind which is cut off and thrown away . After the aging is complete you 're left with 75-80 % of the meat you started with . This commands a premium price . Please note that the dry aging happens long before you purchase the steak . The entire cow is dry aged before it is even cut . You can not truly , safely dry-age steaks in your home . There are refrigerator aging approximations , but they are just that , approximations .
No , it wo n't change the aroma compared to conventional heating . Generally , heating does change aroma . But it changes in the same way in conventional heating and in microwave heating ( given that you heat to the same internal temperature , which can be very different time and power settings for different types of heating devices ) . What microwaves change is texture . That 's why the microwave is considered " a horrible thing " among chefs . You ca n't bake doughs or batters in it , and other things like vegetables can also suffer . Then there is the problem with uneven heating . None of these factors matter with liquids . You can warm milk , wine , whatever , in the microwave , without fearing a taste change .
See this <URL> page , it states that if not crumpled aluminum foils is generally safe , so make sure you do not crumple it . Then it says The USDA recommends that aluminum foil used as a partial food shield in microwave cooking cover no more than one quarter of a food object , and be carefully smoothed to eliminate sparking hazards . The <URL> states However , small pieces of aluminum foil can be used to " shield " areas of foods , such as poultry drumsticks and wings , to prevent overcooking . It also states General Rules for Safe Use of Aluminum Foil : Use new , smooth foil only . Wrinkled foil can cause arcing ( sparks ) . Cover no more than 1/4 of the food with foil . Shape the foil smoothly to the food so no edges stick out It makes no difference which side of foil ( shiny or dull ) is facing out . Do not place the foil closer than one inch from the oven walls . If the microwave oven has metal shelves OR a metal turntable , do n't microwave food in foil containers or metal pans , and do n't let foil used for shielding touch or be close to the shelves or turntable . If you see arcing ( sparks ) , immediately remove the foil shielding ; transfer frozen food from foil container to a microwave-safe utensil . My bolding . So make sure you only cover the top of the cup and make the foil smooth , do not crumple it and it should be safe . The reason to use this as stated in the blog is speed , a few minutes compared to much longer .
Well in Chinese cooking we use a wide variety actually . Typically speaking ... Medium or Long Grain Rice White Rice Fried Rice Sweet Rice or Glutinous Rice Sticky Rice ( You commonly see this at Dim Sum places in the sticky rice dishes wrapped in lotus leaves , among other places . ) There are others of course , but those are the common ones you 'll find since you were asking about Chinese Takeout . The shorter the grain , the more " sticky " it will be . However , that does n't mean that long grain rice should come out grainy either . I suppose different restaurants will do it differently , around here they generally use long grain rice for " white rice " . This is how my mother taught me to make rice : Wash Rice a few times till there is n't any more murkiness . Add water till it reaches your first knuckle on your pointer finger when the tip is just barely touching the rice ( should generally work for any amount of rice ) . Bring to boil , turn to simmer . Check back in 10 to 15 minutes If the water is mostly gone , and it is n't at the texture you like , you can always add a bit more water . Let it sit for a few minutes after the heat is off . In China , you 'll find all different grains . I 've seen both short and long grains , and have seen plain white , long grain rice served as well .
Since you are asking about canning then what you are describing is not a canning process which will give you a result you can store long term at room temperature . Long-term storage of soup would require pressure canning to raise the internal temperature high enough to kill any foodborne illnesses . If you plan to freeze the soup then mason jars are n't ideal , they 'll work but they are bulky and take up a lot of room . In any case you do n't get any real benefit from putting the lid on when hot if you are going to freeze them , you 're better off letting it cool so you do n't end up overwhelming your freezer 's cooling capacity .
Spanish Chorizo comes in two forms both of which to the best of my knowledge are fully cured ( cooked ) : one which is more for eating on its own ( like salami ) and the other which tends to have a higher ratio of fat in it and is used primarily for cooking . The latter one being what the recipe is referring to as " cooking chorizo " . Oftentimes the cooking chorizo is in a paper casing that must be removed ( unless you need some extra fiber in your diet ) . Either one of these would work , however you might need to add a little oil to the pan if you need to cook other things in the fat that would normally be rendered out . Mexican chorizo is always a raw product which must be cooked and is usually in a plastic casing .
While yes it can be done , I would n't choose to do it over another technique unless that was my only option or I just needed some chicken cooked quickly for a recipe where it is used in the cooked form and will have a lot of other flavors added ( chicken salad ) . Remember that a lot of flavor is due to browning and cooking in the microwave eliminates those flavors . At least with poaching , if the liquid is REALLY well seasoned you 'll still impart flavor . Any cooking technique can lead to tough and dry meat , including poaching where it 's being cooked submerged in hot liquid . Regardless of the technique , if the proteins heat too hot and too quickly they will constrict quickly and squeeze out the juices . The result will be tough , dry , saw-dusty chicken or other protein . This is the same thing that happens when scrambled eggs are rubbery ... cooked too long over too high of heat . The proteins act like sponges that are being wrung out . Personally I think you have much less control over meat cooked in a microwave because the cooking occurs from the inside outward and the residual heat continues to build more intensely than if it was cooked in a saute pan or on a grill . Is this something that professionals do ? No . Microwaves in a professional kitchen are mainly used for melting butter , chocolate , reheating things quickly ... much the same as I recommend people do at home . We do not use them for " cooking " . Although I do use it for sweating onions if that 's the only thing I 'd be dirtying a pan for ... put the onions in a bowl with a little butter , cover and nuke for about a minute until tender .
One thing that has n't been mentioned -- <URL> . It 's not completely unbreakable ( and much like Pyrex , when it goes , it goes like what nico mentioned -- little tiny shards everywhere ) . Supposedly , it loses its resilience to breaking over time , so newer plates are less likely to break when dropped as older ones , so this is one case where buying at a yard sale might not be best . I do n't know how the durability compares to Pyrex plates , but it looks more ' dinnerware-like ' to start .
You want the ones that look like little tiny T-bone steaks . Typically they are called Lamb Chops , but look first as there are different cuts under that name . You might also consider doing a rack , which is the equivalent to a Rib Roast , but obviously much smaller . For the rack , I 'd sear it in a pan , and then broil it until done . ( 15-25 minutes , 140-160 degrees ) .
Here 's a neat list of plastics &amp; whether they 're supposed to be microwave-safe or not : <URL>
The interior of modern cans are a heat resistant plastic ( remember they pressure cook the cans at the factory ) , and will be fine for heating liquid things Just do n't try using it to fry stuff !
Microwave ovens have a turntable because the microwaves themselves form what are known as ' standing waves ' . This means there are essentially static columns of microwave energy inside the cabinet itself . You can see this for yourself - spread a tray or plate with grated cheese , take the turntable out ( or press that button ) , and zap it for a couple of minutes . You should see bands of melted cheese interleaved with unmelted cheese . Thus , the food is rotated to ensure even heating .
Unless your hot water tank is very close to your hot water tap , this is a very energy inefficient . As Jefromi notes it would be faster to boil water in a electric kettle first , and then pour it into the pan . Put the pan on the heat at the same time if you are really in a hurry Hot water systems are normally hot enough ( above 55 ° C , 130 ° F ) to keep water borne nasties at bay , plus if you are on town supply water it will be chlorinated etc Normally on the first few meters of hot water pipe are copper , then it switched to normal crimped plastic plumbing . This will vary depending on your local building codes The rate at which pipes lose their heat would ensure it never sits in the danger area for long , not that I think this is a big issue for clean plain water In general , modern copper pipes are not soldered , they are crimped using special hand tools Old or non-renovated houses may still be 100 % copper pipes that have been soldered . This poses no extra safety risks with just clean water in the pipes
Definitely do n't rinse the salt off . One of the nice things the salt does is pull juices to the surface of the meat -- not enough to dry things out , but enough so that when the steak hits the hot pan you have a nice protein-laden coating ( it 's called a pellicle when talking about smoked fish -- not sure about steaks ) on the outside to caramelize . If you rinse it , you 're rinsing that right off . If your steak was too salty , then just salt more lightly . You do n't need a ton , as what you get on there will melt some and mix with the juices and spread out . I think I probably use 1/4 tsp or less per side , and some of that bounces off/misses . And you wo n't lose the crust with less salt -- you wo n't even lose it with NO salt . It 's just easier to get if you use the salt to pull some juices to the surface . If you have trouble getting good salt distribution , use your fingers and sprinkle it from a little farther up -- like 8 inches from the steak . That 'll make it easier to get an even sprinkle without dousing it .
This is just traditional fire cooking , now called camp-fire cooking , or ( US ) cowboy cooking Any Scout should know how to do this :-) It works best using food with tough outer skins , or wrapped in a sacrificial coverings , or more modernly using aluminium foil , or a cast iron pot ( <URL> ) Some common foods examples : Potato and other Tubers You lose about 5 mm ( including unpeeled skin ) to the fire . If you wrap in Aluminium foil the loss is often nil . Wash and soak tuber well before cooking , but do not cut into the skin , even to remove imperfections or ' eyes ' . Takes about 30 to 60 minutes to cook depending on coal heat . If not eating immediately , do not leave potatoes in foil wrapping . Unwrap and let surface dry Corn Do not remove husk . Soak corn before cooking . It takes about 10 to 20 minutes to cook depending on coal heat Cabbage Wash and soak cabbage . Drain excess water . Do not remove any dead leaves etc. . Poke a knife halfway into the core from the top and pour in a little water ( and meat fat for extra go ) . Can take up to 1 hour to fully cook Meat Large slabs work best . Reduce flesh loss by wrapping in edible leaves . If you do n't like the charred bits , you can use Aluminium foil , or better yet a dutch oven . Time depends on mass and done-ness desired Small goods like sausage ( real meat and fat , not sawdust please ) will have up to 5 mm of flesh loss , but are still fun to do . Fish Gut fish , but otherwise leave intact . Fish cooks relatively fast , time depends on mass . Pull sides apart and eat flesh directly off the skin and bone . If using a foil pouch you can add aromatics , raw sugar , and spices to make some amazing meals Fruit Keep bananas in skin , make a couple of small cuts to let steam escape . Cooks in 10 to 15 minutes Unpeeled and un-cored apples cook in 15 to 20 minutes ( you can eat the core , it 's good for you )
It may already be an implicit assumption , but I think that time to cook is probably not as important as how to cook . While the power setting does affect the time to cook , the importance of time is to control how hot the parts of the food get . As with all cooking , there is a need to control temperature . Running the microwave at less than full power allows time for the heat to be conducted from the hot parts to the cool parts . It is similar to searing vs. sauteeing . I think that the accuracy of most microwave oven 's power settings are good enough ( my own testing shows about 10 % ) . I would be more concerned about how I wanted the item cooked . Some examples : When I want to reheat things like a thick soup , I run the microwave at full power for a short period of time , stir , and run the microwave again . Stirring the concoction distributes the heat faster than the conduction process . When I want to defrost frozen foods ( think meat ) , I use the lowest power setting . This prevents the edges of the food from getting cooked .
end question
start question
What 's a good egg substitute in pizza dough ?
This does n't look like a recipe for pizza dough , rather it looks more like a naan or flatbread recipe . I am not exactly sure what you are aiming for , but why not simply eliminate the egg and increase the milk ( or add water ) by a small amount to compensate for the lost moisture ?
That is absolutely fine . 00 flour is super-overpriced here , so much so that it is hardly ever used . Semolina is often used on the pizza peel , but really not all that often in the dough itself . There are more recipes for pizza dough than probably anything else on the internet . Some use all-purpose flour , some use bread flour , and some use no wheat at all . You can get away anything with some experimentation . <URL> has some of the best instruction around on everything pizza . You do n't say where you are from , but know that " all-purpose " flour has a different meaning to some people in India , and will behave differently than the medium-gluten wheat flour that is " all-purpose " to most of us . That does n't mean you ca n't use <URL> ( what is sold in much of India as " all-purpose " flour ) , just that it will behave differently . There is no safety issue at all to mixing flour types . Assuming that the flours are safe individually , they will be safe combined .
This does n't look like a recipe for pizza dough , rather it looks more like a naan or flatbread recipe . I am not exactly sure what you are aiming for , but why not simply eliminate the egg and increase the milk ( or add water ) by a small amount to compensate for the lost moisture ?
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
From <URL> There 's a difference between bubbles formed from under-proofing versus over-proofing . Bubbles from under-proofing tend to be flat but large in diameter . If unpopped , they can blow up an entire pizza . This is the process by which pita or pocket bread is made . Bubbles from over-proofing tend to be high but smaller in diameter . They rise up like little ping-pong balls and eventually form a hole at the top , at which time they stop expanding . They almost always burn . Most pizza bubbling problems are of the under-proofed type . To resolve a bubbling problem , dough fermentation must be adjusted accordingly . To stop bubbling caused by under-proofed dough , increase the amount of fermentation . To stop bubbling caused by over-proofed dough , reduce the amount of fermentation . In addition to proper proofing , it has been found that reducing the amount of water in a dough formula can help with reducing bubbling when dealing with the under-proofed type . The reduction in moisture aids in creating the pinpoint holes in the cells walls . In addition , you want to make sure you properly knead your dough . Some people poke tiny holes in the dough to prevent overly large bubbles . As a final resort you could observe your pizza in the oven and poke bubbles as they form .
If I remember correctly , flautas are made with a softer flour tortilla while taquitos are made with a harder corn tortilla . Both are filled with similar fillings and then wrapped and deep fried . However , you can oftentimes find taquitos made from flour tortillas and flautas made from corn tortillas ... so what 's the deal ? There is another differentiation : size . Flautas are often longer than taquitos , as taquitos are made from taco sized tortillas , while flautas are made from burrito sized tortillas . Another little tidbit if you go to a fancier Mexican place : flautas are often narrower on one side to create a funnel shape . But this is not common in your standard places . TL ; DR ; They 're oftentimes the same thing
Yes , it matters a lot . When you are separating egg whites , it is for whipping them into a foam . This foam is a protein-based foam , relying on protein ends hooking into each other . Even small traces of fat will prevent the foam from forming . Egg yolks contain high amounts of fat . Once an egg yolk breaks in your whites , you have to start the separation anew , because it can prevent your foam from forming . Also , do n't use plastic bowls for whipping egg whites ( their surface retains some fat molecules even after washing , giving you a less stable foam ) and only whip with a cleanly washed whisk or mixer attachment ( not one you have just used for something else , not even if you wiped it clean ) . To prevent big mishaps , just separate each new egg in a teacup and only add the new white to the old whites after it has separated cleanly . Else you are in big trouble if you are separating a lot and the last egg contaminates the whole whites with yolk . And a single contaminated egg is easily reused for a quick egg-and-feta sandwich or something else . Contamination the other way round is n't so worrisome . You still want to work as precisely as possible , as yolk-only recipes will often have somewhat worse texture if eggwhite is included , but small contaminating amounts are usually not noticeable in the finished product , even in foams ( zabaglione , mayonnaise ) . This is because yolk foams are fat-based , and small amounts of protein do n't prevent a fat foam from forming .
To expand upon baka 's comment : this would taste good without the cumin too ; it 'd just be a simpler flavor . You can then replace it with any other spice that appeals to you , since pork 's flavor is n't going to strongly clash with many spices . ElendilTheTall 's answer suggests one option ; I 'm sure you can come up with others . This gives you a chance to make your pork fit well with whatever other dishes are in your meal .
The perfect solution to you - Use the Indian spice called " Asafoetida " or " Hing " . It gives a taste which is very much like Onion and Garlic - In fact , stricter practitioners of Hinduism are not allowed to eat onion and garlic ( as supposedly they cause mental agitation ) . Thus , traditional Hindu ( Vedic ) cooking uses Asafoetida as a subsitute for onion in Indian recipes which almost invariably call for the use of onions . The spice gives off a slightly funky smell ( I like it , but most people describe it as bad ) , but tastes great . It is easily available in powdered form in Indian grocery stores - and usually comes in small containters such as this : It has a VERY strong taste , so put a very small amount of it - about a 1/4 of a teaspoon for a dish that 's meant or 4 people . Usually in Indian cooking it is quickly fried to get rid of the " raw " taste . I am not sure how well it tastes in salads , you 'd have to experiment with it .
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
Your question seems to have two parts : With what do I replace chicken stock to make the dish vegetarian and How can I add some zing to the dish for added interest ? To answer 1 , I 'd make a hearty vegetable stock from scratch . Recipies abound . Alternatively you could rely on a bought stock but I find that these can be overpowering and of course you have less control over the flavour . To answer 2 , consider adding a dollop of pistou to each bowl of soup when serving . Freshly made pistou is easy and adds interest and flavour . See , e.g. <URL> .
Perfect . Sounds like your pizza stone is nicely seasoned . Scrub it with your stiffest brush , rinse with water , no soap , done . If you 're paranoid about germs , cook it before cooking on it . Throw it in the oven at a few hundred degrees , for 15 minutes or so . Ideally , you 're supposed to heat the stone ( thus sterilizing it ) before slapping the pizza upon it anyway ( although that requires a <URL> ) .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
The bottom of the 8 " pan is a bit less than half the size . For a 2 " deep-dish , there 's a 2-inch high ( if you take it to the top ) 8π circumferential strip for another 16π , and presumably the 12 " dough is for a flat pizza . At 32π . vs. 36π I 'd do the whole box , unless your deep dish is n't really all that deep . I 'm also a bit concerned about the " never used " cast iron pan needing some seasoning , but perhaps it 's " lodge logic " pre-seasoned .
The best is the <URL> If you ca n't find that flour locally , there are sellers online . I find a mix of bread flour &amp; semolina works very well too . This is my favourite pizza dough recipe : <URL>
I recommend starting with a chilled dough , puncturing with a knife or fork ( see below ) , and cooking in a greased pan initially then bricking . Cooking directly on the stone the entire time works better for thinner crusts than mid-dough . By mid-dough , I am referring to the ones that plump up a bit and finish between 1/4 " - 1/2 " in thickness . They can have both uniform , almost cake-y cross-sections , or air pockets and bubbles depending on how kneaded they are ( more kneading means cake-ier , denser dough ) . I worked in a shop that made a mid-dough similar to what you describe . It was a standard dough recipe ( flour , water , yeast ) , but I have had success replicating it at home at 450 ' F with beer and less kneading . At home I use a pan and then finish either on the rack or a stone . In any case , you get a dough that tears nicely and has a good chew . The dough itself was mixed in the morning and kept refrigerated for as long as 12 hours as individual shells in greased pizza pans covered with saran wrap . To prepare a pizza , we pulled the shell , punched it with a fork ( puncture a ring around the edge to create a crust , puncture the inside to allow for air ) . Dress with sauce and toppings . We had a stone-bottomed oven , but initially the pizza is baked in the oven in the pan until the bottom of the dough has hardened enough to get " bricked " ( the dough should be rigid enough as to be removed from the pan with one spatula ) . At this point you remove the dough from the pan with a spatula and place it directly on the brick . Cook until the top of the dough browns , and the cheese and other toppings are evenly browned .
Since my pizza dough recipe makes three 12 " pies and I usually make two at a time , I regularly freeze extras just as you did . To thaw , I have used both the countertop and refrigerator method . Thawing on the countertop produced the best results . The dough rolled as usual and the crust ( a thin one ) was crispy on the outside and chewy on the inside after baking .
Lay them out on a paper towel overnight so that the skins dry completely . This gives the benefit of keeping the frozen blueberries from sticking together without needing lots of freezer space to do a quick freeze individually on a sheet pan . Then bag in a freezer bag and freeze . Note that whenever you freeze fruit , the liquid will burst the cell walls as it thaws , causing the resulting berry to be mushier . In my experience , frozen blueberries are n't good for eating alone . To bake with blueberries , thaw them by placing them in a mesh sieve or collander and running water over them until the water is clear off the bottom ( no pigmentation from the skins , which may color your baked goods ) and the berries are thawed . Dry the skins before using in baking . Using these techniques I have not once had any of the 30 pounds of blueberries I froze this summer burst in the freezer and have successfully made many blueberry baked goods from the results .
Half and half or heavy cream is a pretty good substitute . It has similar fat/water suspension , reduces and thickens similarly , and emulsifies similarly . You lose the coconut flavor , but it cooks similarly and you keep the texture . You can not substitute coconut cream , because it is too rich , which changes the texture of the sauce greatly , and does n't do as good a job of getting flavors out of spices . Incidentally , I highly suggest you pick up a box of instant coconut milk powder . It 's not as good as the canned stuff ( needs whisking ) , but because it 's nonperishable you do n't have to use the whole container at a time . This helps avoid the " oh crap , used the last can ! " moments you get with canned coconut milk .
It appears to be feasible ! I found <URL> in which a " cooking expert " gives a specific recipe : Frozen egg tempura Remove the shell of a frozen egg and cut the egg in half lengthwise without thawing . A peeled egg is slippery , so put a paper towel on the cutting board before you place the egg on the board . Lightly flour the halves of the egg all over , and dip it in a mixture of three tablespoons of tempura flour and two tablespoons of water . Deep-fry the egg in oil heated at 160 C for about three minutes . They 're not too specific about the results , but I imagine they 'd have mentioned if it exploded or anything ! <URL> mentions doing essentially the same thing for a scotch egg : Freeze the raw egg in its shell , de-shell the frozen raw egg and wrap the sausage meat around it whilst it is still frozen . This can be difficult as the egg 's albumen defrosts quickly . Coat in flour , egg and breadcrumb . Fry till the scotch egg floats and the crumb is a deep golden brown . It 's the only way I know that gives a soft runny yolk every time . I do n't know what frying temperature was used , and it 's got sausage and breading around the egg rather than just tempura batter , but it 's a deep-fried egg , starting from raw/frozen , and produces a soft yolk .
end question
start question
Stronger bread , how could I achieve that ?
Gluten is a protein that gives bread elasticity . Water makes gluten spirals relax , and kneading helps stretch the gluten and connect with other gluten strands . Bread that lacks stretchiness : may not have enough gluten to start with . If you are using a low gluten flour then you wo n't get and elasticity . In general any plain white flour will have enough , but for best results use bread flour , also known as strong flour may be too dry . Gluten needs water to relax and stretch , if your dough is too dry , or " tight " , then you wo n't get good elasticity may have not been worked enough or worked in the wrong way . Kneading mechanically stretches gluten , if it is n't kneaded enough , or the technique is n't right , then no elasticity may not have been risen enough . Yeast actually improves the dough , it really works on the gluten . Rise is n't just about leavening , it makes a big difference in elasticity . You should notice a big difference if it 's been risen enough If I had to put money on it I 'd say it 's probably your dough being too dry . This is an easy mistake to make , you turn your dough out on the counter and it 's really gooey , must not have enough flour right ? But as gluten get worked it uses up some of the extra moisture , so adding too much flour at the beginning will rob the gluten of the water it needs to relax . Kneading with oil instead of flour may help there . As an aside , I generally add a couple of tablespoons of olive oil to my pizza dough to improve flavor and texture although that 's totally optional . Also , you did n't list salt as an ingredient , bread needs some salt , many bakers recommend 10g per 500g of flour , although I usually cut that down some .
The texture and yield is governed two factors : developing the gluten completely and washing out the bran and starch effectively . To develop the gluten , combine the flour and water into a workable dough and give it 50 light strokes . Cover the bowl and let it rest 10-15 minutes . It is during this time that water chemically combines with the flour and the strands of gluten form . After resting , return to the dough and you will notice it has a different feel . It is because the gluten has formed . Knead the dough 100 times . Immerse the finished dough in ice water or at least very cold water for at least 30 minutes . An hour is better . To effectively wash out the bran and starch it is essential to work the dough under alternating hot ( as hot as your hands can take ) and cold water baths with 30 minute rest intervals each time you change the water . Start with hot , work the dough with a spreading motion for a few minutes . Pour the water into a bucket ( not down the sink ! ) , cover with very cold water and let it rest 30 minutes . Repeat and cover with hot water . Let it rest 30 minutes each time . Usually during the third round the dough will very soft and your hand technique should become one of gathering instead of spreading . If it feels like you are on your way to pancake batter , pour it through a fine colander to gather the gluten and give it a cold water bath . In the last couple rounds it will become increasingly firm and the strands of gluten are evident . Finally you have a ball about 1/3 the size of the original dough . I divide this into baseball sized pieces and drop them into a boiling pot . Return to boil and cook until the pieces float to the surface . Remove and put in cold water . The shape of the pieces is now set but they are n't yet fully cooked . From here cook in a broth seasoned to your liking . I simmer them for 2 hours in a simple kombu , tamari and water broth . I use fine ground whole wheat flour . Stone ground will work but yields are lower and texture is inferior . My dough formula is 2600 gr fine whole wheat flour and 1900 gr cold water which produces 2000 gr finished seitan . Hope this is helpful !
You do n't have to use water as the liquid in your bread . Enriched breads use milk and/or eggs . We have recently had questions about breads which use orange juice . On the technical side , you have to adjust recipe a little . Pickle juice does n't have much dissolved solids , so no need to adjust for that . However , it is very salty , so you should reduce or completely leave out the salt . The acidity will help with gluten development and also with breaking down the starches in flour to make them available for chemical reactions which produce more flavour , so this is a good thing to have . However , yeast itself has some strong pH preferences . It grows best in a slightly acidic environment , but if the dough gets too basic or too sour , it will slow down or not grow at all . I think that the diluted vinegar in the pickle water wo n't oversour the dough , but it would be a good idea to make the poolish with pure water and only add pickle water for the dough itself . As for taste , I ca n't say that much without ever having tried it , but my intuition says that you will get a whiff of pickles , but not a full-blown taste . After all , bread made with orange juice does n't taste like biting into an orange . I think you will notice the difference , but you will still have to add pickles to your sandwiches for taste ( and they are needed for the crunch anyway ) . As for horrible , it depends entirely on personal taste . I am not a fan of pickles or soured breads , and would n't eat it . There are people who drink the pickle water from the jar ; I think they will enjoy the pickle-smelling bread too . If you are a pickle fan , I think it is worth a try , if it does n't work , you only throw out under a dollar 's worth of ingredients .
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
Try using a bow style bread knife . It works well because it allows you to put pressure on the opposite side of the loaf . Also , the bow helps you visually line up the slice .
There are many " natural " or " clean label " ingredients that work as mold inhibitors . Most of them work by adding some acid and thereby creating a more inhospitable environment for mold . Some of the popular mold inhibitors ( at least is some U.S. bakeries ) are : cultured whey , vinegar , and raisin juice . I think vinegar and raisin juice are good options for home use . Vinegar Works by adding Acetic acid . The white vinegar you buy in the grocery store is typically 5 % acetic acid ( at least in the U.S. ) . To inhibit mold , the recommended amount is 0.5-2 .0 % of the flour weight of 5 % acetic acid vinegar . Add with your other liquids . Raisin Juice Concentrate Raisin juice concentrate has been shown to be effective at retarding mold and bacteria growth in bread . It works by adding Propionic acid and Tartaric acid . Further , it seems that a home baker should be able to purchase this in reasonable quantities and at a reasonable price . The recommended amount is 5-10 % of flour weight , by weight . Add with your other liquids . My personal experience is positive : I used to purchase a whole-wheat bread with raisin juice concentrate and it lasted forever . This study from the Journal of Food Science , <URL> , found very dramatic increase in shelf life . The mean mold-free shelf life of the bread containing 7.5 % water extract [ of raisins ] was 18.1 + / - 3.3 d at room temperature while the negative control was mold free for 9.4 + / - 2.4 d . The antifungal efficacy of the extracts in bread was equivalent to 0.24 % calcium propionate in 21 d of storage . Doubling the concentration of the extract did not improve the mold-retarding property in bread . The bread containing raisin paste , the percentage of which in dough was equivalent to 15 % raisin extract , exhibited a stronger antifungal activity than did the extracts in bread . Notes Both of these can inhibit yeast activity which you may need to compensate for by increasing yeast or proofing time . Sources : some personal experience , this really interesting article from Oklahoma State University , <URL> , and the study linked above .
" Completely " definitely is n't a standardized term ; however , since we 're talking about making ice cream here , the correct answer is going to be " as cold as possible without freezing " . When making ice cream , it 's important to get the mixture as cold as possible before you freeze it , especially if you 're not using an ice cream machine , so that you give it as little time as possible for ice crystals to form . If large ice crystals form , then you wo n't have ice cream , you 'll have ice . So get it all the way down to refrigerator temperature and work quickly when you take it back out of the fridge . It 'll be quicker and easier if you chill the bowl or receptacle first .
It is because of the way starch retrogrades . It does so in stages . The first stage needs between 1 and 2 hours , the second one a few days . You have probably seen it more clearly in starch-thickened puddings : they thicken a bit on stovetop , but are only ready to unmold after a few hours , else they wuold n't keep their shape . In a bread , the starch granules are the same way : right after baking , they contain too much moisture . Sure , if you eat the bread right away , the aroma is very good . But the texture is problematic . It gets doughy and dense at the smallest amount of pressure . Tearing instead of cutting helps a bit . And if you are at home , eating with your family , go for it and eat the tasty still-hot bread . It is especially good with soft , low-gluten breads made with AP flour with the least amount of bran ( 50 % milling grade or even less ) , my grandma would say that they " melt in the mouth " when they are hot . But if you serve bread slices to guests , or want to spread something on the bread , wait for its starch to set . On a side note , the second stage of starch retrogradation is the reason why you should use day-old bread for crumbs for thickening , and the third stage is the one which makes bread inedible . But this goes too far away from the original question .
One of the best ways I 've found to remove ants from the bread is to put it into the oven at a light temperature . Out of the frying pan and into the fire .
The most common methods to create chocolate coated ice cream bars , with or without a stick are to : Use truly tempered chocolate , which may be more trouble than it is worth Use a mixture of chocolate thinned with vegetable oil . See for example , this recipe from <URL> .
I do n't know for sure if it is the same enzyme naturally that naturally occurs in apples , but there is a commercial product called NovoShape that serves this purpose . It is a pectin esterase . You can find it in small quantities at Modernist Pantry : <URL>
Wash the shrimp and remove only the head . Insert a bamboo skewer along the shrimp from head to tail , running along the legs without touching flesh Drop into boiling , salted water for 3-5 minutes ( do not put a lid on ) ; after this period , they 'll change color and rise to the top . If they feel firm , they are cooked . Quickly place them into ice water , which helps them have good color and stops the flesh from shrinking and becoming hard . When shrimp are cold , remove from ice water and drain in a colander . To remove the skewer , use a screwing motion . For nigiri-sushi : Remove shell from around body , but not the tail . Butterfly cut open , cutting from head to tail along the belly with the knife only going halfway in . Use the knife or your fingers to open it up and flatten it carefully , without further breaking the flesh . Remove vein and rinse with lightly salted water . Lay on papertowels to drain . If using for sushi rolls , remove tail and cut in half lengthwise .
I would n't recommend to bake this again and eat it because there is a food safety issue . If you had noticed this right after baking , this would not be a problem regarding food safety . But since the bread stayed for many hours in the <URL> and since it contained perishable ingredients like eggs , I strongly suggest to discard the raw bread .
Very simply , bake it for the recommended time in the recipe . Then if it looks golden brown ( note that if the air in the oven is not humid enough the bread may stay pale , on a side note a humid oven helps to develop a good crust ) , tap it in on it 's base and if it sounds hollow its done . If it feels soft in the base and not hollow or If its still not golden brown , put it back in the oven for a few minutes then try the tap check again . Although you stated you dislike the thermometer technique , for others reading the bread should have an internal temperature of 200F or 94C , if not return it to the oven for a few minutes until it is .
If you make the base neutral - a typical Neopolitan dough would do - you could use white chocolate shavings to give an appearance of cheese as well . I would keep the amount light . While looking to verify this idea , I found a <URL> that gave me a few more pieces of inspiration . Instead of carmelized sugar banana slices , try dried fruits ( strawberries , sweetened cranberries , raspberries , etc. ) for your toppings . These will look like sausage bits or pepperoni . You can also use pineapple and make it look like a Hawaiian pizza . You could also use <URL> as a white sauce or as some of your cheese for a richness that is not too sweet .
I 've used both sugar and orange juice to sweeten mulled wine in the past , but obviously orange juice would change the flavour significantly . Add more sugar slowly , tasting as you go .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
The key to any Soufflé is the egg whites . The air bubbles trapped inside of them is what causes the mixture to rise . ( As daniel mentions McGee puts it at somewhere like 25 % due to the air expanding from the heat and 75 % from the steam interacting with the bubbles . ) Problems occur because the Soufflé is so reliant on steam and the egg whites setting . If the base dilutes the egg whites then they ca n't set properly and the bubbles trapped inside of them ca n't do their job of making it rise . If the whites are just mixed into the base thoughtlessly most of the foam will be destroyed . Most recipes agree that stiff but moist and glossy peaks are how the egg whites should be beaten .
That is simply caramelized sugar that coats the dish before the custard is poured in for baking . As the flan is chilled , the moisture from the custard liquefies the caramelized sugar and results in the sauce . If you 're wanting to make it for other desserts and are n't making flan , then simply caramelize sugar and then add water to it . Be careful as the steam can easily burn you if you 're standing over it . The sugar will seize up and then as it continues to cook the crytallized caramelized sugar will liquefy . You will then have caramelized sugar syrup .
What I 've done in the past is mist some water on both sides of the bread slices , then put them in the microwave for 10-15 seconds ( alternatively , an oven set at 300F/150C for 5-10 minutes will do it too ) . Experiment with the amount of water ( but keep it low ) and cooking times . You should get much softer ( and warm ) bread slices out of it .
end question
start question
Is it bad to leave the crock pot on " warm " ( not low ) all day ?
I suspect " warm " is meant to maintain temperature , rather than raise it . My crock pots are too ancient to have anything other than " high " and " low " , so I ca n't assert any real authority . However , if you reach 145F within the first hour at the highest setting , then keep it at " warm " , and test the temperature after about 30 minutes with an instant-read thermometer and it stays around 140-160F , you 'll probably be fine . Personally , I 'd test the temperature first by cooking water . If the temperature stays above 140F at low , the worst risk you 'll have is overcooking . Beans and vegetables like carrots and celery can overcook fairly easily in a crock pot , but higher collagen meats meant for stews tend to be fine when cooked for extended periods . Most crock pot recipes for stews and soups usually hold fine when at low for a full workday , although that 's presuming a somewhat 70s-era soup aesthetic , which is probable for a crockpot recipe . However , I would be inclined to attempt the recipe using the low setting rather than reducing it to warm , if you 're not going to test the temperature first . If it turns out to be overcooked , you can always puree the ingredients with a blender ... I also doubt that switching to " warm " would be dramatically less likely to overcook the food than " low " , unless it holds at a pretty stable 140F , and low ends up somewhere around 160F .
Yes . What you can do is throw the potatoes in with the meat - anything above 85C will eventually cook the potatoes through . Then when you pull the meat out to rest , raise the oven temperature to say 190 - 200 C and possibly add a little fat . They wo n't take long to finish roasting to a nice golden brown .
<URL> for limoncello/lemoncello out there that use vodka . I would reference one specifically calling for vodka rather than adapting one that relies on either 150 or 190 proof Everclear . The <URL> ( does not necessarily apply to leeching of sugars , just oils ) , and a corresponding need to be sugared down more . As vodka is easier to just sip and lower in alcohol , it would likely require less simple syrup , and either more lemons , agitation , longer steeping or a combination thereof .
Leave it uncut , if you slice it now your slices will dry out more .
I had an application not long ago for which I needed the answer to the question as written . <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) has a recipe for banana bread that I love . I save over-ripe banana chunks in the freezer until I feel like making banana bread . The recipe calls for " 6 large very ripe bananas ( about 2 1/4 pounds ) , peeled " . My bananas were already peeled and chunked . I wanted to follow the recipe very precisely because the recipe and particular methods were new to me . So how much peeled banana equals 2.25 pounds of unpeeled banana ? My doctor has been nagging me to eat breakfast , so most days I manage to eat a banana early in my day . For one week I weighed the banana unpeeled and peeled . Then I struck an average . My average banana weighed 183 grams unpeeled , 116 grams peeled . 185/116 = 1.58 . So , 2.25 pounds ( 1021 grams ) of unpeeled banana = 1.43 pounds ( 647 grams ) of peeled banana . My average banana ( very average in the store , Dole brand ) was 62.4 % edible .
Pot Roasting = Braising This more recent document from the same association , Cattlemen 's Beef Board and National Cattlemen 's Beef , supports this by using them interchangeably : <URL> I was trying to figure out what the document from your question may have been implying by the cuts the different cooking techniques were recommended for . And I 'd guess , because Pot Roasting is applied to more connective heavy cuts , that braising would be a shorter cooking time . That 's my best guess .
Quinoa . I only recently discovered it as part of doing P90X , and man , it 's so , so delicious . It 's kind of a nutty flavour that goes really well with sauces . It 's also pretty high in protein , which is good . Note that this is n't " no-carb " , though it is lower in carbs than rice . It 's important that you wash quinoa before you prepare it . Otherwise , it 's prepared in a very similar way , 2-1 water-to-quinoa , boiled and simmered .
Is it safe ? That depends on a lot of factors . Generally , no . It is n't . A blog post from the Healthy Home Economist has the opinion of a firefighter : One gal mentioned that her husband was a firefighter and that leaving a stockpot simmering overnight or while they were out of the house was completely out of the question . <URL> <URL> Since you can not get a crock pot my only other suggestion is to simmer your bone broth in the oven . If your pot is oven safe and you trust your oven 's ability to keep a steady low temperature , then try it in there . If you plan on making bone broth more often , a crock pot is a great investment and if you check out your local Goodwill or Salvation Army store you might find an older but still perfectly usable model for an excellent price . It would also allow you to slow cook your broth overnight safely ( and uses less electricity to do it ) .
As your question stands , the possible answers are essentially : You used too much liquid or too little cornmeal . You did n't cook it long enough . You did n't cool it enough for it to firm up . Polenta is the sort of food that you should make by trusting your senses over a recipe . You should be able to tell , with a little bit of experience , whether it 's too thin and wet after cooking for it to set once it cools . If it is , you can cook it a bit longer on low heat to get more water out of it , and the next time you can compensate with more cornmeal or less liquid . Also , since I do n't know what recipe you used , do note that there are also recipes out there for soft polenta ( usually described as such ) , which is intended to be served soft , not cut .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
Since I 'm not an expert in Indian cuisine , I ca n't say this for certain , but I agree with the comments so far that this seems basically equivalent to the separation of the oil from the curry . To my mind , the wording makes perfect sense , because in some cases with a lot of oil/butter , you can get separation happening early on the pan 's edges . Oil tends to float on top , and usually the center of a pan is heated more strongly over a burner . Thus , you tend to get boiling/bubbling in the center , which tends to push any floating oil toward the edges . But these recipes are not looking for that small amount of oil along the edge ( which , depending on stirring and the thickness of the curry , can stay there through much of the cooking process ) . They are specifically waiting for the time when separation increases and fat appears floating on the surface even away from the edges of the pan .
If it 's a small spot you can rub half a lemon on it till it 's gone . If the entire inside has darkened you can fill it with water , add several tablespoons of cream of tartar ( 2 per quart ) and boil it for 10 minutes . You can also buy aluminum cleaner , but the do it yourself is typically cheaper . In case you 're wondering why I 'm suggesting an acid for cleaning . It 's actually alkali foods that stained your pot , not acidic . e.g. boiling potatoes . Acid actually cleans the spots put there by alkali foods . The common warning against cooking acidic foods in an aluminum pot is to prevent excessive amounts of aluminum being leeched into your food .
We do this regularly with regular dishes and fine china . Neither say " oven safe " . My mother has also done it for years . The process is fairly simple : Put our oven on it 's coolest setting ( about 175 ° F or 80 ° C , I think ) Wait for it to reach temperature Turn it off Put dishes in and close the oven . We just stack the dishes . As Joe points out , they 'll warm faster if you do n't stack them . However , I usually do this when I 've got 6-8 dishes , so stack is easier . Be careful when taking the dishes out . They 'll be hot . We 've never had a problem with dishes using this method . However , if you do n't think your dishes will stand getting hot , use your own judgement as there 's a wide variety of quality and materials used in place settings .
Buttermilk is already thoroughly packed with live bacteria . During its manufacture , that bacteria already consumed some portion of the available lactose and turned it into lactic acid . Because of the lack of food , acidity , and the extreme competition it is pretty hard for buttermilk to go bad . The good bacteria will stay active and the buttermilk will get thicker and more sour until it runs out of lactose . In fact - when your buttermilk container has about 1/2 cup left you can make more just by refilling the container with milk and leaving it to ferment on the counter for a day . If you use it up more quickly than the bacteria eat the lactose then you can keep this up indefinitely . Do n't worry if it is thicker - if it still smells good then it probably is . As Noctrine said - mold around the lip is the worst risk . I am not a food chemist and despite my personal experience - if you ever suspect that food is bad just throw it out . $ 2 of buttermilk is n't worth an unpleasant afternoon .
Try heating the cream and milk to just below a simmer . Right before adding the milk mixture to the yolks whisk the sugar , vanilla , and eggs together . Pour the hot milk mixture into eggs very slowly . It 's best to strain it through a fine strainer . If you use vanilla bean make sure to add it after straining it . Let cool a little before putting it into the fridge . It should be cold before making the ice cream . It 's not necessary to fully temper ice cream base like crème anglaise .
In the star trek world you have plenty of beings with body temperatures higher or lower than humans , so if you had a being with a body temp of 79C then ethanol would work out perfectly ! However , with humans the liquid which would fit the bill of vaporizing just below body temperature would be Pentane , which not only smells bad but is also toxic . The science behind it is wrong anyway , you 'd want a liquid with a much lower vaporization point than body temperature so it would boil off quickly . If you pick a liquid that boils just below body temperature it would take some time to vaporize and you would n't have the same effect . All is not completely lost , you can still have some cool effects with liquids that are safe for consumption . What you have to remember is that the closer a liquid gets to its boiling point the more it evaporates , and any volatiles in it will tend to remained suspended in the vapor and be detectable by the nose . This is the effect you get when you sniff brandy or cognac that has been brought up to body temperature . You can savor it by holding it on the tongue for a few seconds and letting the vapors fill your nasal cavity . So all you need is some strong ( at least 80 proof ) and flavored ( or more accurately scented ) alcohol , and the right glasses . Brandy snifters would work best as they are designed to capture the vapors so they can be inhaled . You could then heat the liquid to just above human body temperature and then serve . Keep the quantities served down unless you want some very drunk guests !
It probably wo n't hurt you , but I would n't risk it , just in case . Glazes for food containers are unlikely to contain lead , but may have other metals that are harmful in sufficient quantities . These include cadmium , barium , cobalt , strontium , chromium , and in the case of some older orange ceramic , URANIUM . Blue glaze is probably copper or cobalt based . I found a <URL> on ScienceDirect about high blood cobalt levels in association with lead poisoning from glazed Greek earthenware . This indicates that cobalt can indeed be leached out of the glaze and absorbed into the body . Cobalt is eliminated rapidly , but is moderately posionous , and copper is problematic in large quantities . Which brings this back to where I started : it wo n't kill you , and probably wo n't make you sick , but it 's not really worth the risk . File it in the same category as eating egg salad left out in the heat a few hours ? One other caution : prolonged contact with acid may damage and discolor your formerly handsome crock , in addition to leaching out these metals . To check for this , you can leave white vinegar in the container for a week or so , checking for change in color of the vinegar and the container every day .
In a cooking instruction , " low heat " does n't refer to the temperature the sauce reaches , but the speed at which you heat it up . Many stove rings ( hobs ) are marked min-2-3-4-med-6-7-8-max . On that scale , a low heat would be 2 or 3 . Very low heat would be min or 2 . Left on the stove long enough , even at min , your sauce will boil . The key about using low heat is that it probably wo n't boil in the amount of time you need to melt the cheese , and that 's good . I make cheese sauce regularly ( did so tonight ) and I start at med to melt the butter , turn it down while the roux cooks , add milk , once it 's pretty thick I turn it down even further , or just turn it off since an electric element will hold heat for a while , then stir in the cheese . If it ever happened that my cheese was n't melting I guess I would turn the heat back up a bit , but that has n't happened to me .
Expensive knives can survive a trip through the dishwasher , but like others have mentioned , they can bump into things , end up with coatings of detergents and such , suffer damage to wood , etc. . Why would you do that to an investment ? Cheaper knives will just straight out rust/corrode , even if you remove them and dry them right after the cycle . Yeah , you can scrub it off , but you 're also losing metal from the blade , possibly starting rust in areas you ca n't dry , and generally degrading the knives .
I am going to assume you are cooking the rice on a pot rather than in rice cooker . If you are cooking it in the rice cooker , you would n't need to lift the lid to check for done-ness . However if you are cooking in a rice cooker , the lid should not be immediately lifted off after it says it is done cooking . You need to let it sit for about 5-10 minutes so the steam can continue to cook . If you are cooking in a pot , the main reason why you do not want to lift the lid is because you want a even cooking temperature throughout . Typically when you cook rice ( once again I am going to assume just plain white rice ) , you start the water/rice mixture by boiling it on high until it comes to a boil . I do recommend stirring it at this point . But not after covering . Then you set it to very low and cover and let it simmer for about 15-20 minute or more depending on quantity . By doing this , you can evenly cook the rice throughout so that the rice is n't too overcooked on the bottom . If you continue to lift the lid , the temperature would drop , and the top would be less cooked than the bottom . So you would need to cook it longer for the top to be cooked while the bottom is being overcooked . In addition , the steam that is escaping is the water that you put into the rice . thus when you lift the lid , the water is escaping and will result in the rice being dryer than optimal . If you want to add more water , this will slow the cooking process on top of it already being slowed by losing temperature when you lift the lid . This will result in slower cooked rice .
end question
start question
Why punch down knead free bread ?
If you punch down a no-knead loaf , on average , you 'll get a more consistent crumb and fewer large holes in the finished loaf .
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
The simple answer to your question is the kind of starch they use . Most use cornstarch or tapioca starch , neither of which contain gluten , so most powdered sugar should n't contain gluten . If the type of starch is n't listed , do n't buy that product . For absolutely no gluten , it gets a bit more complicated . A Google search for " Gluten Free Powdered Sugar " only yielded a few brands that make a " gluten-free " claim . Since most brands of powdered sugar do n't contain any ingredients that would normally contain gluten , look for the line " This product is processed in a facility that also processes wheat " . Choose a powdered sugar that lists the starch used as cornstarch , tapioca starch or other non-gluten starch and that does n't have that line on the label . Of course I can only speak to US labeling , other countries may be different . One brand , Domino Sugar , stood out to really stand by their claim of gluten free . <URL> ( C&amp;H is Domino , BTW ) . I happen to have some C&amp;H powdered sugar , so I looked at the label . There is no " Gluten-Free " claim on the label , but the ingredients listed are only sugar and corntarch , and there is no " this product is processed in a facility ... " warning . Walmart brand also pops up on the " Gluten Free Powdered Sugar " search , they say " Naturally gluten-free food " . The FDA requires that claim not be misleading , so if they do use equipment to process the sugar that also processes gluten-containing ingredients , the sugar can not contain more that 20 ppm gluten . There is one way to know for sure about any ingredient you use , or to even to check your final dish . Elisa Technologies , a very well respected name in medical laboratory testing , has put out home test strips sensitive to 10 ppm , that 's half the concentration of gluten the FDA allows for a product to be certified " gluten-free " . If a product tested contains less than 20 ppm gluten the US , Canada and the European Union allow that product to use " Gluten Free " on the label . <URL> At over $ 10 a strip , you 'd want to use them judiciously , but if I or someone I loved had serious health issues that did not allow gluten , I 'd get these strips . <URL>
The purpose of the beer ( and the vinegar ) in this case is to add some of the malty , fermenty flavors typical of longer-fermented or sourdough breads . You can either leave it out and replace it with an equal quantity of water or use a <URL> The carbonation from the beer might add a little extra lift at the start to establish some air cells and work the gluten a bit , but with an 18 hour room-temperature bulk rise , that benefit would be negligible . In most beers ( especially large US commercial bottlers ) there is n't enough active yeast left in the bottle by the time it is drunk to do anything either . The author of the original article ( Cook 's Illustrated # 90 , Jan 2008 ) added the beer and vinegar in order to add flavor to a bread recipe that already produced decent bread . My bread now had tang [ from the vinegar ] , but it lacked complexity . What I needed was a concentrated shot of yeasty flavor . As I racked my brain , I realized that beyond bread , there is another commonly available substance that relies on yeast for flavor : beer .
I 've used dark beer with good results . It just depends on what flavor you desire . I often use Lion stout , for example , which imparts a strong , intense flavor and color , which I quite like , but it would not be appropriate for all applications . Also Sierra Nevada porter has happily found its way into my bread . Keep in mind that these beers may be too strongly flavored for your taste , in which case you can add some lighter beer to balance it out ( lager or pilsner ) . Personally I do n't like to add pale ales to bread as I do n't enjoy the way the hop flavor comes through , but this comes down to personal preference . In general , the flavor of the beer will come through in the bread , but you wo n't notice all of the subtleties of flavor that you do when drinking , so I would n't put too expensive a beer in bread -- the bread will turn out fine , but you 're not going to appreciate the beer to its fullest .
Both messes up the ratio , as you said , so you should n't use anything during kneading . You only need to use a little bit of something during shaping . With some pastries , the shaping is extensive and you get lots of the smoother worked into the dough ; this is expected and desired ( e.g. in strudel sheets ) . Properly kneaded bread dough does not stick to anything , even if it started out very wet . So , if it sticks at the beginning , just continue kneading until it stops ( I knead it between my hands then , not on a surface ) . When it is ready , it will not only stop sticking to your hands , but also pull the smear of the hand surfaces into itself , coming clean off them so you can work with it . ( You will still have to clean your hands afterwards from gunk between the fingers and on the back of your hands ) . When your dough is kneaded through , you want to form a good surface for the rising period . You can use flour , oil or water ; you 'll use so little that it does n't really matter much . Just spread a thin film on your surface , shape the boule and put it into the rising bowl . For the final rise , you want it to keep its shape when it 's put into the oven . So , when you are giving it its final shape , you can use either flour or a starch to prevent it from sticking to whatever it is rising on . I knew somebody who swore by rice flour as producing the least stickiness , but use plain wheat flour myself . You can even lay it on a bed of flour ; it is not getting pressed into it , so it wo n't absorb it and get hard . But you will have a layer of either raw or burned flour on the prepared bread . An exception would be very oil-rich breads ( at least half as much butter as flour ) . They do better when the final shaping is done in oil too . For pastries and cookies , it depends on the type of dough . If it is supposed to be a hard dough , use flour . The strudel mentioned above is made in flour . If it is supposed to be a soft or tender dough , you can try shaping without any smoothening ( for example many cookies will flow into a smooth shape during baking even if put onto the sheet as an unsightly pinched ball ) . Ugly sticky pastry doughs like pie crust can be rolled into submission if you roll them between two smooth silicone mats , but you ca n't get them very thin that way . If you need them at less than 4 mm , use flour , best in combination with the silicone . Plastic wraps also works , but you might have to use two pieces per surface when the crust gets wide . If you have a dough which really feels half-liquid in your hands , shape with flour . Corriher 's very light southern biscuits from Cookwise are a good example for such a dough .
I 'd say your problem is that the yeast has exhausted the food in the dough before you even get the leftover dough in the fridge . When you pull it out the next morning , the yeast does nothing or very little because there are no more sugars left for it to eat . And not only will this prevent rising , it will also limit browning because it 's at least partly the sugars that brown in the oven . You could work some more flour ( and water , to maintain hydration ) into your dough as yeast food -- maybe even a little sugar if you want -- and then rise/form/rise and bake . But at that point you 're doing what @tmow suggests -- just using your pizza dough as a starter for new bread .
I think everyone agrees that " artisan " gets tossed around as a marketing term that is largely empty or vapid , referring as much to the " old world " images used on the bag than to the bread itself . However , I think there is an actual " artisan " quality to food , and that it relates to several qualities or ethics of the producer - which you do find in some actual bakeries : Develops their own recipes - an artisan baker should be developing recipes that meet their needs . If they do n't know enough to do that , then they are just following instructions . Tweaks recipes carefully over time to maximize the intended qualities of the bread . An " artisan " producer understands the variables that impact the quality of their product and constantly adjust them to keep the bread quality high , despite changing or variable ingredients . Follows the ethic of " Flavor Rules " , and flavor is the first priority . Of course they have to be a business-person as well , but recipe changes and enhancements should primarily be made to improve flavor , not reduce cost , improve packability , etc. . Has a real passion for what they are doing , and holds themselves to the highest standard . Artists are always the most critical of their own work , and are constantly looking for ways to improve . A home baker may not be an " artist " , but when I make " artisan breads " at home ( and I think this is what Peter R. is referring to ) , I do so with an intent to make the bread as good as I possibly can , even if this means baking it tomorrow instead of tonight , or ordering special flours online . I contrast this with my " makin ' dinner " baking , where I obviously want it to be good , but am willing to give up some perfection in order to get it done tonight . Neither method is inherently better , but they are undertaken with a different intent and process .
Kneading dough has a few functions . First , it distributes the ingredients together evenly and allows the flour to become hydrated . As the flour starts to absorb water , enzymatic reactions occur and some proteins begin to mesh together . The two most important in this process are glutenin and gliadin . When these proteins start to get tangled up together , they form gluten , which is the protein that allows bread dough to stretch and trap gas bubbles produced by yeast . These reactions will occur on their own to an extent , as in no-knead recipes , but kneading accelerates the process . Kneading also allows you to control the texture of the bread . A vigorous knead can help to produce a bread with a fine crumb as the kneading an tighten the gluten , keeping the air bubbles more uniform . Doing short kneading periods ( or folds ) spaced by time for the dough to relax and rise can give you more extensible dough which can help give you a more open crumb structure . Finally , kneading is sometimes used to add inclusions to the dough that would disrupt it 's activity if added to early . This can be things like seeds , which would cut gluten strands if included too early in the process , or things like butter in a brioche , which would shorten the dough if included before the gluten had already developed .
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
In most cooked foods , it will break down . Raffinose has a melting point of 80 ° C and decomposes at 118 ° C . So if you keep the food below 118 ° C , you will be OK . You can sweeten your tea with it , or use it in a custard ( the big sugar molecules will interfere somewhat with the setting of the custard , but I ca n't predict if the effect will be noticeable at all ) . Applications involving simmering water should be safe , if the solution consists of water mostly . However , if you use large amounts of raffinose ( e.g. you are trying to make a jam ) , the boiling point of the solution can be much higher than the boiling point of water . As for baking , the raffinose will definitely decompose in the outer layers of the baked good , but this could be a very small part of the whole . The core of a properly baked cake should stay much lower than 118 ° C. Small items like cookies will be more problematic . When making a substitution , you have to consider that in some recipes , sugar is more than just a sweetener . For example , I do n't know if you can cream butter with raffinose the way you can do it with table sugar , and without creaming , you ca n't make proper cookies . Another example would be pectin : high methoxyl pectin ( the one used for jams ) requires high sugar concentration for gelling , so you probably ca n't substitute raffinose there ( unless you heat it enough , because one of its decomposition products is sucrose ) . Another thing to consider before eating lots of raffinose is that it is indigestible for humans and gets degraded by gut bacteria in the intestines , producing large amounts of gas - it has the same effect as eating lots of beans , for exactly the same reason . The source for the boiling and decomposition point of raffinose is the <URL> .
If there 's leavening in the cake ( baking soda or baking powder ) that gets activated once incorporated with the rest of the ingredients , and you substantially overmix , you may lose some of its power as you help the gas escape from your batter . Unless you 're whipping it vigorously , you 're not going to be bringing enough air into the batter to make up for it . This is pretty much like letting the batter sit out on the counter for a while before baking , except faster .
I 've seen bread recipes like the one that you described . When bread is baked in an oven with steam - the starch in the crust is able to gelatinize before it all dries out and becomes crispy . This is what makes the crust crisp , shiny , and delicious - characteristic of " artisan " breads . Most people do n't have steam enhanced ovens ( or the ability to hack their oven to add steam : <URL> ) The recipe you linked has water added for steam but then takes out extra insurance ( they cheat ) by adding the cornstarch glaze to mimic the effect . By adding extra , pure , starch on the surface of the loaf more gelatinization occurs . Additionally , cornstarch gelatinizes at a lower temperature that wheat starch . Conceivably , you should be able to use any starch and see similar results but , in the US at least , cornstarch is by far the most common . It should n't be necessary if you are able to produce enough steam in your oven .
While I found many references to Chinese egg noodles , I did not find much information on Japanese egg noodles . Digging into the edit history of your question , it appears that the actual product you would like to substitute for is <URL> . Their website is parsimonious with information , but does call the product vermicelli , and only indicates that they are made with wheat , and does not mention egg . <URL> , a producer of Asian ingredients for the US market , suggests using suggests substituting Italian style fettuccine or spaghetti for Chinese egg noodles . Putting this all together , you should be able to substitute dried Italian vermicelli , spaghetti , fettuccine or angel hair in the your recipe with good results . Check the package to ensure that the ingredients are only semolina ( and water ) , as some Italian pastas are made with egg ( this is most likely with the fettuccine shape ) . Any non-egg based semolina pasta will be completely cholesterol free . See also : <URL> from Recipe Tips .
If you do most of the kneading while the dough is very wet ( like Jeff Varasano recommends for his pizza dough here <URL> ) , you should be able to do most of it with even a comparatively weak hand mixer and not have too much trouble holding it steady enough ( see link - gluten IS working even though the dough is still only slightly more dry than a batter ) . That said , if you try to work with a drier dough , even if your motor can handle it ( which it likely ca n't ) , it will probably be more difficult to hold the mixer than to just knead the dough by hand .
Besides the initial gluten relaxing that mrwienerdog wrote about , another important effect is the absorption of liquid . It takes time for the flour to fully hydrate with the available liquid . Before it does the dough will be more sticky and there will be less gluten available for kneading . Giving the recently incorporated dough a short rest allows the flour to pull in all the liquid it can and become much easier to work with . A similar effect can be seen with pastry doughs . Even though often the goal is to minimize gluten development , a short rest gives the flour time to hydrate and can turn pastry dough from difficult to work and crumbly to soft and smooth .
This discussion is a bit far fetched , ( going for safety 's sake ) . If by upside down you mean the ' business end ' of the utensil is down and the handle up , this comes to mind : If there is a drop of contaminated water ( from hands or a splash ) it 'll work its way to the very tip . The tip also is the last place to dry . the tip of the utensil ( nearly guaranteed to touch food and likely lips and mouth ) is touching a surface that many other utensils hit ( bottom of the basket ) . A parallel issue to ground meat from multiple animals here where if one piece is carrying something , then it 's spreading . A clever thing I saw a banquet hall staff do , was to bring the utensils with the bucket to the table which was covered with clean ( disinfected ) table cloth and tipped it over . That way she did n't have to pull them out by the business end and could grab the handles once they rested on the table .
Note that wheat is a type of grass , and is technically a grain . Grains without gluten Not all grains have gluten -- only those closely related to wheat do . Grains which do not have gluten include : Corn ( maize ) and its variants or derivatives such as cornmeal , polenta , hominy , or masa Rice ( all varieties ) A note on rice : some varieties are called " glutinous " . This just sounds similar to " gluten " , but is in fact used to indicate the rice 's stickiness . Glutinous rice does not have gluten , not even as traces , its stickiness comes from a special type of starch . Millet Sorghum Oats ( although many oat products are processed in plants that may have had wheat ) Sometimes confused for grains Note that the following gluten free seeds are not grains , although sometimes they are confused for grains : Wild rice Quinoa Buckwheat ( despite the name , not a wheat nor a grain ) Amaranth Non-grains used as gluten-free starches and flours Therefore , all grain-like , starchy , or flour-type foods which are not grasses are always gluten free , including wild rice , quinoa ( despite any other issues ) , and so on . Additionally , flours or seeds based on non-grain seeds , nuts , and legumes are always gluten free , although there may be other dietary sensitivities . These include : Almonds Soy beans Peanuts Chickpeas Mesquite flour Amaranth Quinoa Wild rice Finally , starches and flours based on roots , rhizomes , and so on are gluten free , including : Potato Sweet potato ( True ) yams Tapioca Grains containing gluten The following grains are all wheat relatives , and have gluten to a greater or lesser degree : Wheat Spelt Rye Tritical Barley Kamut Note that the following are all processed wheat products or specific wheat varieties , and should be avoided to maintain gluten free diets : Farina Durum Semolina Couscous See also : <URL> <URL>
Some ( many ) bread machines do n't mix well , so you might not get a good mixture whatever you do . But it 's worth trying . If you are making the bread immediately after adding the ingredients , it probably does n't matter much how you add the ingredients ; just put the yeast and the sugar and such in the centre . If you use the timer , it is important that the yeast stay dry up until the moment the machine starts mixing . What gave me the best result is this : add water , sugar , salt , egg , fat ; mix this by moving the pan around until the ingredients are mostly dissolved ( or stir with a wooden implement ) ; then put all the flour in a heap in the middle of the pan ; make a hollow in the centre of this heap , put the yeast in this hollow ; then set the timer . Another tip : if you put the pan on a kitchen scale while adding ingredients , and you press " tare " on the scale after each ingredient , it 's much easier to weigh everything . This only applies if you use ingredients by weight , of course . Lastly , experimenting with amounts that differ from the recipe may greatly improve your bread . It depends on the machine . I also found that the " French " setting on the machine ( = longer baking ) gave the best crust .
Most small bakeries use small rotary mixers ( like a Kenwood that stands as high as a man ) that handle batches up to about 100lb - using a dough hook for bread . The really big bakeries use trough mixers with blades that turn along the length of the trough . A typical batch is around 600lb .
end question
